[1] "--- Summary ---"
A topic model with 15 topics, 97257 documents and a 27116 word dictionary.
[1] "--- Gamma (Expected Proportions) ---"
[1] "--- Dominant Topic Counts ---"
dominant_topic
    1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15 
  298  1326  6055  9642  5952  1794  2924 10249 13887  8789  6227 11521  5636  5621  7336 
[1] "--- Top Words ---"
Topic 1 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: shit, fucking, yeah, fuck, sad, ever, man, super, hell, honestly 
 	 FREX: zoo, holy, yeah, lmao, sub, ugh, fucking, zoos, 😭, pathetic 
 	 Lift: bostonbruins, crybabies, free_emotes_pack, villanueva, zoo’s, tigers, announcers, bojack, emote, lpz 
 	 Score: fucking, shit, yeah, fuck, sad, man, hell, watch, super, zoo 
Topic 2 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: depression, great, lol, dog, sounds, dogs, deep, eat, animals, cat 
 	 FREX: dog, dogs, animal, fries, ah, 😂, ketchup, tropical, puppies, pet 
 	 Lift: mustard, puppies, 🤔, 🫠, acct, adoptions, al's, arby's, barc, breeders 
 	 Score: depression, great, dog, lol, dogs, sounds, cat, animals, animal, cats 
Topic 3 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: feel, know, i’ve, feeling, hope, you’re, better, anyone, day, thanks 
 	 FREX: celtics, im, game, nba, idk, kyrie, he’s, playoffs, gonna, finals 
 	 Lift: jaylen, lakers, 3-0, ahl, ainge, amir, backcourt, bergy, bigs, brad's 
 	 Score: i’ve, feel, team, celtics, game, feeling, im, you’re, season, know 
Topic 4 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: depression, help, mental, can, anxiety, health, need, also, therapy, issues 
 	 FREX: therapist, medication, meds, psychiatrist, adhd, therapists, psych, ketamine, medications, prescribed 
 	 Lift: prescribed, 🫶, 300mg, 30mg, 503-988-4888, 5mg, abilify, affrontingness, allegra, alprazolam 
 	 Score: mental, anxiety, health, therapy, therapist, depression, treatment, medication, meds, psychiatrist 
Topic 5 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: us, country, economic, depression, government, ^, gt, state, great, economy 
 	 FREX: trump, democrats, republicans, ^, election, voting, democratic, vote, biden, economic 
 	 Lift: democratic, voter, #009, #or, #sfw, 2bdelete, 2btoggle-nsfw, abolish, alliances, assassinations 
 	 Score: ^, economic, economy, government, gt, trump, war, recession, great, vote 
Topic 6 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: gt, amp, said, =, police, ~, +, #x200b, article, austin 
 	 FREX: amp, #x200b, mr, =, |, photo, john, page, attorney, nbsp 
 	 Lift: #v, `, 022-27546669, 03-5774-0992, 06-6260-4343, 0800-11-11, 0800-1110111, 0800-1110222, 0900-2100h, 1-800-668-6868 
 	 Score: amp, gt, =, |, #x200b, police, ~, article, court, said 
Topic 7 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: suicide, kids, health, mental, children, school, >, risk, also, gun 
 	 FREX: gender, trans, gun, teachers, suicide, adults, students, studies, suicides, guns 
 	 Lift: aap, chl, contagion, copycat, cross-sex, curriculum, e-cigarette, ecg, educators, firearm 
 	 Score: suicide, gun, health, mental, >, children, kids, students, rates, abuse 
Topic 8 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: depressing, depressed, really, pretty, now, see, well, thing, makes, though 
 	 FREX: depressing, depressed, wow, af, that’s, damn, pretty, looks, kinda, seeing 
 	 Lift: stupider, oof, dares, defenseman, yolo, 😕, adjective, hobbs, angelinos, dougie 
 	 Score: depressing, depressed, really, pretty, makes, now, damn, that’s, kinda, af 
Topic 9 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: people, think, can, way, know, homeless, many, things, say, want 
 	 FREX: human, selfish, understand, saying, empathy, homeless, truth, ill, compassion, wrong 
 	 Lift: animalistic, brony, debits, dehumanize, empathizing, enablement, fire’s, flames, hospitalizing, psychotically 
 	 Score: people, homeless, think, person, society, someone, problem, understand, things, drugs 
Topic 10 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: city, area, live, park, downtown, neighborhood, new, around, street, areas 
 	 FREX: rail, transit, subway, chinatown, mall, stores, trains, parking, boarded, malls 
 	 Lift: chinatown, storefronts, 110th, 125th, 52nd, airy, allegheny, arterial, avalon, beltline 
 	 Score: city, downtown, transit, area, neighborhoods, traffic, park, neighborhood, parking, buildings 
Topic 11 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: can, friends, find, people, also, good, things, lot, want, new 
 	 FREX: hobbies, dating, gym, lonely, meet, coffee, music, hang, meetup, friends 
 	 Lift: 34m, audiobooks, barcade, boardgames, co-ed, comedies, doodles, dumbbells, ebooks, facetime 
 	 Score: friends, music, lonely, fun, find, people, social, meet, dating, can 
Topic 12 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: seattle, winter, weather, lived, moved, portland, year, seasonal, summer, days 
 	 FREX: weather, rain, sun, snow, sunny, grey, winter, gray, rainy, pnw 
 	 Lift: 1.5-2, cloudier, cloudy, dec-feb, drizzle, frosty, glaciers, grayer, greyness, humidity 
 	 Score: winter, weather, seasonal, seattle, rain, sun, vitamin, summer, winters, snow 
Topic 13 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: one, day, every, guy, back, time, night, around, never, car 
 	 FREX: drunk, stolen, lady, bags, door, neighbor, guy, bathroom, eyes, saw 
 	 Lift: fingernails, hitch, mix-a-lot, posse, saunter, bedbugs, benz, boobs, chimney, detachable 
 	 Score: guy, night, car, day, saw, trash, room, door, house, apartment 
Topic 14 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: money, $, housing, pay, work, can, jobs, job, rent, living 
 	 FREX: rent, housing, wage, pay, paying, prices, landlords, money, $, income 
 	 Lift: 15k, 2-3k, 2.5k, 20k, 30k, 32k, 350k, 35k, 36k, 3k 
 	 Score: $, housing, rent, money, pay, jobs, tax, income, prices, taxes 
Topic 15 Top Words:
 	 Highest Prob: time, years, life, back, now, work, family, job, year, since 
 	 FREX: college, ut, semester, family, finally, started, mom, dad, life, wanted 
 	 Lift: utd, bme, career-wise, detangling, formulate, fs, gpa, mccombs, non-academic, outlive 
 	 Score: job, life, school, years, family, back, semester, college, work, ut 
[1] "--- Top Thoughts ---"

 Topic 1: 
 	 FUCK THE SHOOTOUT

FUCK GIVING UP LEADS

FUCK EVERYTHING

BOSTON WILL FUCK COLUMBUS

ABSOLUTELY SHIT CANNING

FUCKING 7-0 

FUCK THE BLUES

IS COLUMBUS EVEN FUCKING REAL?

HAVE YOU EVER MET ANYONE FROM THERE?

WERE THEY AS MISERABLE AS THEY SEEM?

THE CITY DEFINES DEPRESSION TO ME

FUCKING LETS FUCKING GO

FUCK YEAH

WOOOOOOOOO

FUCK LSU TOO WHILE IM AT IT

AND SALTY ASS OHIO STATE FANS

FUCK YEAH

WOOOOWOOOOWOOOOO

FUCK
 	That's just sad.😭😭😭😭😭 Poor little creatures.😭😭😭😭😭 This picture is going to make me depressed all day. What a cruel world we live in.
 	r/suicidewatch r/depression r/sad r/frankocean r/makemeaplaylist
 	OH NO! THE TUNE IS SUPPOSED TO BE DEPRESSING AND SOMBER BUT THE CAPS JUST MAKE IT SOUND LIKE THE PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN THEME!
 	RIP drag bar, RIP Austin’s pizza, RIP moojo, RIP lil J playing for Texas, RIP CLA being named CLA, what else...

Edit: RIP parking garage across towers 
Edit2: RIP PCL revolving doors
Edit3: RIP McDonald’s on MLK
Edit4: RIP double daves and OG verts kebab 
Edit5: RIP WC kismet
Edit6: RIP guad madam mams 
Edit7: RIP big bite (that one really hurt)
Edit8: RIP Jamba Juice near 23rd
Edit9: RIP Conan’s pizza
Edit10: RIP mellow mushroom
Edit11: RIP mural on 24th and guad
Edit12: RIP pita pit RIP schlotzskys RIP texadelphia RIP player's RIP that cheap Chinese place next to Torchys
Edit13: RIP Rasta Pasta
Edit14: wow this is depressing
Edit15: RIP Le Fun and Einsteins arcades
Edit16: RIP fat sals
 	If you have not already done so, check out [FAQ: I've been feeling very stressed or depressed lately. Is there anywhere I can get help?](/r/UTAustin/wiki/mentalhealth) on the [r/UTAustin FAQ](/r/UTAustin/wiki/faq).
 	If you have not already done so, check out [FAQ: I've been feeling very stressed or depressed lately. Is there anywhere I can get help?](/r/UTAustin/wiki/mentalhealth) on the [r/UTAustin FAQ](/r/UTAustin/wiki/faq).
 	Man, I don't have a Twitter account so I hardly ever go there, but goddamn, is that how Twitter always is??? Seeing those replies to the Governor's tweets makes me really fucking depressed. So many idiots who will "never wear a mask". ugh.
 	HAHAHA!! That is really, funny, haha. But... I do NOT wanna visit him on the east coast, for sure! I'd rather have a dry spell (wink, wink).

Anyways, this is some depressing-ass shit, man.

P.S: OMG! That is just too funny.
 	God this is depressing. That line about the Burlington Mall. 😭😭😭😭😭
 	Oh my god, the number of NY Post and Daily News articles on this subreddit is fucking depressing. It's always clickbait garbage, but apparently there are enough idiots in this sub to continue upvoting and giving them ad revenue.
 	Geez, its depressing how the down-vote brigade is stifling the discussion. Let's downvote out spam and crude comments, not unpopular questions.
 	Not sure why you got downvoted. It was obviously a joke. Sometimes, I forget that r/Houston is one of the subs on Reddit that is 110% serious 24/7 with no room for wit, sarcasm, satire, or jokes. Thank God we have a circlejerk sub for Houston to liven up the spirit. This sub gets as dystopian and depressing as the actual city does.
 	I’ve been to both the Oakland zoo and the SF zoo recently and goddamn the SF zoo is SO depressing it’s unbelievable. It doesn’t hold a candle to the Oakland zoo. I wonder what crazy shit Breed had to tell the panda people in China to get one in that sad zoo because I know the Chinese Panda People are extremely protective of their pandas and the SF zoo is just not it.
 	Oh yeah, the nightly TV news is nothing but death and depression. Well, that and "hard hitting news" that makes a mockery of journalism as a profession. :) 
 Topic 2: 
 	 Not Chicago dog. 
Mustard, relish,onion, pickle spear, tomato dash of celery salt , sport peppers.... Done
Chicago depression dog... Mustard, relish,onion, sport peppers... Done
 	The depression dog is the original Chicago hot dog:  Mustard, onions, relish, and sports peppers. Unfortunately the garden dog has been deemed the "Chicago style" dog.
 	Technically, NOT a Chicago Style Hot Dog, but a "Depression Dog".

Missing tomato, celery salt, and pickle spear.
 	Red hot ranch is my favorite depression dog. Their fries are great. Burgers are tasty, too.
 	Superdawg has good Chicago dogs, but if you're interested, there's a great alternate take on it called the "Depression Dog". Basically, it's a Vienna Beef with relish, mustard, onions, and sport peppers with fries in the wrapper. Jimmy's Red Hots on Grand and Pulaski has great ones.
 	A depression dog:

French fries, with yellow mustard

Wrapped on a beef frank
 	A depression dog:

French fries, with yellow mustard

Wrapped on a beef frank
 	"Depression Dog, a slightly dressed-down alternative to the classic Chicago-style hot dog. Composed of a red hot sausage doused in yellow mustard, relish, white onion, and sport peppers, what really sets the signature dog apart is its crown of crispy, crunchy French fries."  This article has a little of it's history: [https://chicago.eater.com/2023/4/5/23669577/gene-and-judes-depression-dog-street-food-stand-chicago-suburbs-river-grove](https://chicago.eater.com/2023/4/5/23669577/gene-and-judes-depression-dog-street-food-stand-chicago-suburbs-river-grove)
 	Al's does a depression dog - no tomato, pickle, celery salt.  Portillos does the 7 essentials.
 	Its a depression dog. No tomato, pickle, celery salt. They load greasy fries on top so if you like greasy food, this is the place for you.  I prefer my dog Chicago style.  Bun lightly steamed,  fresh veggies on top.   A little crunch. Best hot dog imo is 35th street red hots, Vienna beef factory,  fat johnnies (they use a cucumber instead of pickle), and nickys at 105th and western.
 	The oldest hot dog joint in Chicago is close to the shameless house.  Dave's Red Hots.  They serve a depression dog with fresh cut fries on top.  Best fries in the city.
 	That’s a full Chicago dog. A depression dog is a dumbed-down Chicago dog, a boiled dog with mustard relish, onion, peppers, and that’s it.
 	Jimmy's at Pulaski and Grand.  Depression dog like Gene and Jude's

 	gene and judes do depression dogs, not chicago/maxwell style.
 	Neither are standard Chicago style, gene n judes is a depression dog and superdawg is their own thing that's similar to a chicago dog but missing tomato and celery salt. 
 Topic 3: 
 	 I wouldn't agree. I'm saying it again. I LOVE Kemba, since he got drafted I knew this guy was real deal.
But his offensive game is limited, we all know that. I wouldn't say its Brad, because Walker played the same way in Charlotte too. Brad was limited in offensive schemes as our best playmaker was probaby Smart, since Kemba is not a playmaking guard.
His game is suited for regular season, he just doesn't have enough offense for playoff defenses. His injuries added to that.

I'm so sad for Kemba. He is such a good teammate who loved being in Boston and playing playoff basketball, then injuries happened and its all downhill for him from there. Sucks to see him get traded to a non playoff team, if I was him, I'd be devastated and depressed. I hope he's gonna be okay mentally.

I HOPE Celtics trade in for playmaking guard. Hell, bring back Rondo lol, we all know he can still ball when he wants too.
 	Such a sad season As a Celtics fan i can say this season was just a disaster and not the greatest for me. Watching all these other teams ball out and hoop compared to us just made me sad but i know there’s the future for us and our team was in and out of injuries. It just sucks knowing our team didn’t do the best and that the Brooklyn Nets will win it all this season kinda like a double whammy. It also just sucks seeing the Nets win because it’s just so easy for them no team is competition to them what so ever. Nobody in the west will come close to stoping them in my opinion. I like Kd because i can appreciate a real hooper and a good one but it just sucks seeing him win another ring with yet another “super” team and i know the Nets aren’t as super as Warriors but i mean who can guard their iso ball strategies with the three most elite iso ballers. It’s just depressing not even be able to actually sit down and be on the edge of your seat to watch close games, game winning buzzer beaters from teams and good players. This playoff series is just “who’s getting embarrassed by the Nets for the ring”. I don’t know man it just sucks being a real basketball fan and not seeing Nba basketball you’d expect, it’s just now Kd and kyrie and everyone else throwing up 3’s. Even Blake Griffin is banging 3’s like come on man the league isn’t even enjoyable right now especially without even Lebron.
 	The fact that Danny ainges best draft pick since Rob is grant Williams is horrifically bad. Not even framing this as grant hate because he’s doing better but to have all those draft picks after the jays and only come away with a 3 and D role player and Rob who’s great but injury prone (and he was our own pick) is terrible. We could have traded those picks to get guys to actually improve our team and instead we’re stuck with extremely depressed assets

I still think we could have made the finals in the bubble and maybe even won if our entire bench wasn’t gordon hayward and a bunch of unplayable rookies
 	JB forgot how to dribble, everyone was bricking shots, couldn’t get to the rim at all, it was just a disaster. There were definitely some questionable calls but we cannot just start blaming the refs for everything. The team needs to play better, our stars need to play better. We’re facing the defending champions, it was never gonna be easy regardless of if we get calls or not. I also thought some of the calls WE got were questionable so I don’t know man. We beat the 7 seed and everyone was freaking and I wanted to say to temper expectations but I would get chastised. I still think we can beat the bucks, but I also know that they could definitely beat us. Don’t freak out, don’t blame the refs, just relax. If game 2 goes the same then we can start getting depressed but winning game 1 does not mean a series is over, people need to just chill out and see what happens. Either way being in the second round after a sweep is WAY better than any of us could have expected with how this season started
 	You could resign Terry and then send him and a pick to the Lakers for Ball. Assuming the Lakers are trying to collect picks in an AD trade. Or Maybe you send Smart to NOLA and Ball comes to Boston in a three-way deal. Something like that seems more likely because NOLA wants to fill out a roster and not just get picks back.

I suppose if you love Lonzo, you could try to get involved because you need a PG when Kyrie leaves, and the potential Smart/Terry combo is a little depressing. Not sure what Lonzo's upside is at this point though.
 	Hahaha

If anything next season I am excited to not have a superstar player on the team. The game threads and overall negativity was a real depressing read 

So hopefully the bandwagon Kyrie fans will go, we won't get the bandwagon AD fans either ... Now if only the lowlifes would stop saying we need to trade Hayward we will be set!

Also, while I have your attention... I also am one of those that thinks we should have Terry be our starting PG so long as he gets along with Jaylen and Jayson and there's no chemistry issues.

Terry is a good starting PG he won't be chasing a Max contract so he will be good to bring back once he has a definite role. He's like DLo but won't need the max spot. Rondo can come back off the bench and be the new team dad 

Starting lineup 
Rozier
Smart
Tatum
Brown
Hayward

New dad:
Rondo.
 	Friendly reminder: We beat the Bucks in the season opener last year, who went on to be NBA Champs while we went .500 Tonight was a great game, it sucks to lose of course but it certainly ain’t the end of the world. No Horford, dozens of turnovers and missed easy buckets inside, Tatum shooting 7-30. We basically handed the Knicks this game on a silver platter and it went down to the 58th minute. 

And again, we beat the NBA Champs last year in game 1 and went on to be an entirely depressing and uneventful 36-36 team. This game ultimately doesn’t mean much.

What this game did show is that we have a MUCH improved bench, our young guys took another huge step forward, and this team has a lot of fucking fight in them. Oh, and Ime takes timeouts before the other team gets a 15 point lead. 

Cheers fellas, we’ll get em next time
 	If you think about the make-up of their team, this trade does make sense (as depressing as it is). If they trade IT, Jae, Zizic, and pick(s) not including LAL/BRK, their roster in 3 years (assuming they keep their team as it is right now) will be:
* Kyrie at 27
* Hayward at 29
* Smart at 25
* Jaylen at 23
* Tatum at 21 (woah didn't realize he was still 19 and turning 20 next march, lord he's young)
* Semi at 25
* Terry at 25
* Guerschon at 24
* BRK + LAL/Kings pick who will be around 20-22 Y/O
This will give them a core of young good players all entering or in their primes along with Horford who will be 33 and their solid veteran to look up (probably after making 3-4 ECF/Finals in a row) along with giving more time for JB, JT, and Semi for these coming seasons. Also a weird tidbit: Kyrie, Smart, Terry, Jayson, and Hayward were all born in the month of March
 	I just want us to play good ball and compete man even if it ends tomorrow if we could just have a game where we play well even if they outplay us in the end but we fucking bring it would make me so happy. It’s the dogshit play that’s been depressing last two games. The future is still super bright irregardless- whether we go young and keep our picks and kyrie outs (maybe we turn into 2012 thunder a year or 2 from now) or he stays and we get AD. Celtics forever no matter what.
 	Imagine a supercut of all these backbreaking losses I know it sounds masochistic but it's honestly kind of hard to wrap your head around all of the depressing losses we've had this year. I don't think other teams' fans quite get how many there have been and I feel like it'd just be insane to see them all in one place. 

Like look at this list of particularly painful losses

* Raptors home opener blowout
* Double OT wizards loss
* Bulls implosion
* Luka buzzer beater
* Cavs implosion
* First spurs loss
* Brandon Boston Clippers loss
* Blown out by Cam Payne's Suns
* Sixers implosion
* Bucks implosion
* Loss to G-league Timberwolves
* Loss to PG and Reggie Jackson-less Clippers
* Second Spurs loss

.....Aaaaand tonight. It's crazy. I forgot like half of these! Not only are we bad, most of our losses the team either looks like it's sleepwalking all game or they poop their pants in the last 15 minutes. It has been a really rough year and I just feel like it'd be crazy to see it all in one place.
 	What exactly is the long-term plan for the bench? Develop them? Currently the Celtics only have 6 players who are reliable every night. Then you have a bunch of dudes clinging to any playing time they can get like Romeo or Grant or dudes who are only good in certain matchups like Kanter or Semi. Is Ainge really planning on developing Edwards, Grant, Rob, Javonte, Romeo, Semi into championship level bench players? Because Kemba might be too old at that point and Hayward might be gone or too old. Most likely Ainge is probably just going to trade this year's picks for more future picks but fuck that would be so depressing
 	Even if it's one game, why would this team have that mentality last night? Not trying to sound like a doomer here, and I totally acknowledge that the Celtics could potentially lock in for the next 3 games and win them all and none of this would even matter. But why the fuck would a team that won 64 games, has all the pressure in the world to make the finals, and should clearly be laser focused, play the way they did last night? 

This team's goal should be to disprove all the critics, yet they lost last night to a team that's wayyy worse and less talented to them by being complacent and not taking them seriously enough. The number of fucking times this has happened in the last 5 years is actually enough to enrage anyone. Remember the Miami series in the bubble? The Celtics fucked around in the first few games there and ended up losing, and we could have been in the finals that year too. Just like last year, against the same team. This time the Heat are missing their BEST player.

&#x200B;

This current Heat team doesnt even have their starting fucking PG playing. We let Tyler Herro put up 06 Chris Paul numbers on us. We have a team with Jaylen, Tatum, DWhite, and fucking Jrue Holiday as perimeter defenders - all of whom are all-defense level or close, and we let Tyler Herro and some rotation players shoot us out the gym. They did the same thing last year. They don't have enough playmaking to beat us by 2's like Denver can, so obviously they're going to try to increase their variance and shoot as many 3's as possible, and the Celtics were lazy.

&#x200B;

I think what's most depressing is that the Celtics should be playing like they have a chip on their shoulders. None of our players or coach were finalists for any major awards, Tatum has been surpassed by Jalen Brunson in all NBA/MVP discussions, yet this team refuses to come out and kill their opponents. I thought the team would make a statement and not play around with their food but last night's game tells me that they didn't learn shit, and don't have the basketball IQ to adjust. 

&#x200B;

There is zero excuse for this Celtics team to not beat this Heat team in less than 6 games. They are missing two of their starters, one of whom is their best player by far.
 	Going into the series, I figured the guy that can guard Jaylen would be Klay, but after watching Klay has definitely lost a step. Hes not quite as fast as he used to be sadly, its depressing. 

Gary Payton 2 might come in and be a difference defensively, but hes gonna be hobbled too. Take in, a lot of people dont really think hes that great of a shooter either, so if youre the Warriors, do you really want to roll out 2-3 of Dray, Looney, GP2, and Iggy (like they did last night), guys who cant really shoot?

Us being able to run a 1 big lineup proved to be very beneficial too because Al absolutely dominated, and Timelord gets the rest he still needs, AND Theis doesnt need to get minutes. The Warriors are in a pickle, Game 2 is must win for them and I dont expect them to lose. But moving forward, I really dont know what lineups you throw at Tatum, JB, Horford if youre the Warriors, alternatively, we have defensive and offensive sets for every single Warrior on the team.
 	Probably the darkest comment i’ve ever seen in a post game thread I’m sick of this.

I’m sick of being a laughing stock of hockey. I’m sick of people who have never watched hockey telling me about how bad the Leafs are, and how the Leafs losing is “typical Leafs”. I’m sick of the fact that every single fucking year I tell them “No it’s different this time because _________!” I’m sick of every single fucking year that difference not mattering and these people who know nothing about hockey asking me “I thought you said it was different this time?” Because at the end of the day who really knows more about hockey? I’m some delusional fan who gets my hopes up every year and every year this team disappoints me. When people say “typical Leafs”, what success do I have to point to to prove them wrong?

I hate how on paper we’re the better team. But we’re not, are we? Boston finished ahead of us in the standings. Boston beat us in the playoffs. We played some great hockey in the playoffs but at the end of the day none of that matters because we’re not playing hockey again until September. And what do we have to show for it? Some memes fresh off the press, and the all too familiar feeling we have right now.

They’ve officially broken me. I’ve never felt like this after a loss before. I’ve been in a foul mood since Sunday afternoon and it looks like that’s here to stay for the time being. I’ve never been angry about a loss for more than a day, not even last year. I feel so defeated. Have you ever been so frustrated that all you want to do is cry? I’ve only ever been that frustrated a handful of times in my life, and 0 of those times were as seemingly meaningless as a sports team. Maybe I’ll feel different by the time October comes, because that’s a long ways away, but right now I don’t know if I want to regularly watch this team anymore. My moods are literally dictated by the outcomes of games. I feel like it’s not the coaching or the players, it’s literally the team. This team is destined to do this forever.

And if you’re in the midst of replying “lol ok clearly you’re not a fan” then I don’t know what to tell you. I’m literally depressed over this and I want to cry. Maybe I’m not as big of a fan as I should be. Maybe this is me quitting when the going has remained tough.

I wanted so badly to play meaningful games, but I wanted more to WIN them. This teams only consistency was their inconsistency. They showed real potential in the postseason and then fell asleep for half of game 6, a game that would have sent Boston packing if they won. Then in game 7 they just couldn’t get anything going. I’d be an idiot for thinking professional sports players didn’t want to win. But I don’t think they wanted it as badly as Boston did.

I wasn’t even a teenager the last time the Leafs won a playoff series. I was too young to think about how cool it was that the team I cheered for could do that. I don’t even want a Cup at this point, I just want to win ONE round in the playoffs.

Congrats Boston. If you’re here for the sweet taste of salty tears, I don’t blame you. I hope my dying inside has quenched your thirst. Hello also to all the Islanders, Senators, Habs and Buffalo fans.
 	Depressing?? Lmao, we have a 12 game win streak going, 3 (or maybe more) legit all-stars when Hayward gets back, and 2 of the most exciting young players from the past two drafts. You should go root for Philly if you want a top 5 pick every single year. 

Not to mention, the Lakers are 6-8 with 2 wins over the Suns and 1 against the Nets. And it's waaay too early to overreact about the records anyway. At this time last year the C's were 6-6 and the Lakers were 7-5. We know how that turned out. Relax and enjoy the season. 
 Topic 4: 
 	 redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope myrtaceous lemnaceous diploglossate peristethium blueness prerevolutionary unstaggering zoopantheon bundle immolate unimbowered disherison tracheitis oleana parcher putrefier daintiness
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope myrtaceous lemnaceous diploglossate peristethium blueness prerevolutionary unstaggering zoopantheon bundle immolate
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope myrtaceous lemnaceous diploglossate peristethium blueness prerevolutionary unstaggering zoopantheon bundle
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope myrtaceous lemnaceous diploglossate peristethium blueness prerevolutionary
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope myrtaceous lemnaceous
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale protopope
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix prop aiseweed cinque balaenoid pyometra formalesque Presbyterian relatability Quelea edriophthalmatous carpale
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium prelicense secohm brisken solicitrix
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility pyrrolylene vast optical transphenomenal subirrigation perturbation relead Anoplotherium
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology resparkle palatoalveolar Sycon popely Arbacia entropionize cuticularize charioted binodose cardionephric desugar pericranitis blowings claspt viatorially neurility
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform misdescribe agathism springhalt protrudable hydrocyanic orthodomatic baboodom glycolytically wenchless agitatrix seismology
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen Triphora nonanaphthene unsafely unseemliness rationably unamendment Anglification unrigged musicless jingler gharry cardiform
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism goschen
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive testable Protohymenoptera smithery intercale turmeric Idoism
 	redivert cuprous theromorphous delirament porosimeter greensickness depression unangelical summoningly decalvant sexagesimals blotchy runny unaxled potence Hydrocleis restoratively renovate sprackish loxoclase supersuspicious procreator heortologion ektenes affrontingness uninterpreted absorbition catalecticant seafolk intransmissible groomling sporangioid cuttable pinacocytal erubescite lovable preliminary nonorthodox cathexion brachioradialis undergown tonsorial destructive 
 Topic 5: 
 	 In the past 40 years, correct, but not always. 

Tariffs are generally used to protect industry in a developing country. From the Republican Party's founding in 1854 to the end of World War I, they were the party of big business and industry, who lobbied in favor of tariffs while the U.S. was developing to protect them from British competition (Democrats at the time were the party of farmers, who wanted lower tariffs on imports of machinery and to get other countries to lower their tariffs on our agricultural products). It wasn't until the 1920s and America's industrial maturing that the GOP dropped its mercantilist view of trade and embraced expanding trade (though the Great Depression and the Smoot-Hawley Act of 1930 quickly reversed this).

After World War II is when the Washington Consensus on liberalized trade policy came to be accepted in both parties, as we created institutions such as the World Bank, IMF, encouraged the creation of the EEC and EFTA (the predecessors to the EU) and signed trade agreements with Europe in 1947 and 1962. However, we still were somewhat cautious about trade, as evidenced by Nixon's mild protectionism in the early-1970s in response to the recession of 1969 - 1970 to win union votes. 

It wasn't until Reagan's ascendency that free trade became religion in the GOP, as we signed CAFTA in 1988 and NAFTA in 1993. But in the past 15 years protectionism has re-emerged as the GOP has embraced right populism and nationalism as a response to globalization and the rise of China, as evidenced by Trump's nomination and election.
 	The collateral damage the government is doing to prevent the spread of this virus will do far greater destruction to the United States than covid will.  Our economy will not survive this, and this will usher in a depression even worse than the one that occurred in the 30s if we don't reverse course VERY SOON.  It will be worse than the 30s depression because this will be a Hyperinflationary depression.  Think Venezuela.  

Remember, not even CHINA was this authoritarian with their response!  They shutdown the city of WUHAN.  That's it!  The United States is shutting down entire states across the whole country with no end in sight.

On a scale of 0 to 5, 0 being the government take no action versus 5, which is a nationwide total shutdown, what we're implementing is more akin to a 4.  All I'm advising is we take the response down to a 2.5.  Quarantine the elderly, get testing kits out there, make sure all hospitals are given adequate resources, allow "non-essential" businesses to re-open with the caveat that they practice social distancing and not have more than 50 individuals under one roof.
 	I mean, yes, Kamala lost Dearborn Michigan by a landslide. The Muslim vote was a significant reason why she lost Michigan, a critical swing state.

But Muslims comprise of about 1% of America's population, so there is also a diffuse depression of her support across the country. That's just Muslims - there's a significant proportion of the non-Muslim progressive base that also strongly oppose the genocide.

But go ahead and handwave away the genocide as a non-contributor.
 	It isn't a sudden change, the Democratic and Republican party have evolved their platforms over time depending on what were the big sticking points in US politics. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political\_eras\_of\_the\_United\_States)

During the Civil War Republicans (Lincoln) were the abolitionists and the Democrats were anti-abolitionists and white supremacists.  


But some key inflection points was during the Great Depression, especially under FDR when the Democratic party came to support expansion of the federal government with the New Deal.

Then many point towards LBJ (a Democrat) signing the Civil Rights Act, at which points Southern Democrats who were racists or wanted to keep segregation, but voted for Democrats because they had voted for Democrats for a very long time realized the Democratic party didn't align with what they wanted anymore and the GOP started to directly appeal to their racism in order to win votes and gain an electoral advantage. (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern\_strategy)
 	Venezuela

Not sure why this is being downvoted. The Socialist Party of Venezuela is currently in office and their people are starving and they're experiencing hyperinflation.

&gt;The Venezuelan government under [Hugo Chávez](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugo_Ch%C3%A1vez) then established [populist](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Populist) [social welfare](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_welfare) policies that initially boosted the Venezuelan economy and increased social spending, temporarily[[15]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-NACLAcrimeREV-17) reducing [economic inequality](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_inequality) and [poverty](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poverty) in the early years of the regime.[[19]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-21) However, such populist policies[[20]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-22) later became inadequate, causing the nation's collapse as their excesses—including a uniquely extreme fossil fuel subsidy[[21]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-23)—are widely blamed for destabilizing the nation's economy. The destabilized economy led to a [crisis in Bolivarian Venezuela](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crisis_in_Bolivarian_Venezuela), resulting in [hyperinflation](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperinflation), an [economic depression](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_depression),[[22]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-ELPAISfeb2015-24)[shortages of basic goods](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shortages_in_Venezuela)[[23]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-VENdepression-25) and drastic increases in unemployment,[[24]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-poverty80-26) poverty,[[25]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-NYThyperinflation-27)disease, child mortality, malnutrition and crime. These factors have precipitated the [Venezuelan Migrant Crisis](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolivarian_diaspora) where more than three million people have fled the country.[[26]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-28) By 2017, Venezuela was declared to be in [default](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Default_(finance\)) regarding debt payments by [credit rating agencies](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_rating_agency).[[27]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-29)[[28]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-30) In 2018, the country's economic policies led to extreme hyperinflation, with estimates expecting an inflation rate of 1,370,000% by the end of the year.[[29]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venezuela#cite_note-31) 
 	&gt;A war that was inevitable for any president in office. An economic recession caused by Bill Clinton and Andrew Cuomo. Budget Deficit? Obama ran the largest budget deficit out of any president, EVER.

Obama inherited a war that was inevitable for any president that followed Bush.  An economic recession caused by Bush and a Republican congress repealing oversight and regulations.  Budget Deficit?  Bush's disastrous economy (and subsequent bailout) contributed to the largest budget deficit out of any president, ever.  

&gt;The biggest federal deficit on record is $1,412,700,000,000. Republican George W. Bush was president for about a third of the 2009 fiscal year, and Democrat Barack Obama took office and was president for the remaining two thirds.

&gt;The largest budget deficit ever incurred came as the country was fighting several wars and the president declined to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans. It also came during the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. The $1.4 trillion deficit was the direct result of legislation signed by Bush.
http://uspolitics.about.com/od/thefederalbudget/tp/10-Biggest-Budget-Deficits.htm

You're going to blame the deficit on the guy who inherited the problem immediately after?

How much conservative talk radio do you listen to??
 	"Recession" which was fixed by "spending irresponsibly" instead of re-instating the rules that would have prevented another collapse... Most of the pieces that caused the recession are still there and many caused by Clinton policies:

&gt; President Clinton's tenure was characterized by economic prosperity and financial deregulation, which in many ways set the stage for the excesses of recent years. Among his biggest strokes of free-wheeling capitalism was the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which repealed the Glass-Steagall Act, a cornerstone of Depression-era regulation. He also signed the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, which exempted credit-default swaps from regulation. In 1995 Clinton loosened housing rules by rewriting the Community Reinvestment Act, which put added pressure on banks to lend in low-income neighborhoods.


http://content.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1877351_1877350_1877322,00.html

--

Bailling out billion-dollar businesses without re-instating the protections while spending irresponsibly did not help us and many argue hurt us worse.
 	Let me give you a history lesson and we will start with pre-civil war. 
Pre CW North= Republican, diversified economy, industrialization. 
Pre CW South= Democrat, agriculture, slavery. 
I think we agree here. 

Republicans did what? Free slaves, made black people citizens, equal protection of the law (not upheld by democrats), and gave black men the right to vote (again, democrats in the South didn't uphold this well). 

Roaring 20s= Republican influenced until the market crashed. South still poor regardless due to racist Democrats, Jim Crow Laws, Separate But Equal, etc. 
Great Depression= Democrats introduced social programs like Social Security, economy still sucked. 
40s=WW2, economy still sucked, allies win the war, rest of the major world powers destroyed by the war, USA is untouched bar Pearl Harbor. Republicans take control of the country and the economy boomed under Eisenhower, began contruction of Interstate system. Meanwhile, democrats in the South continued to oppress black people and economy still not diversified under democrats. 
Also in the 50s, Democrats vehemently refused to desegregate after the Brown V Board of Education ruling. 
60s: Civil Rights Act was more popular by Republicans than Democrats if you look at both Senate and House votes. Republicans were about 80%-20% in favor in both chambers whereas democrats were 60-40. But of course democrats will get the attention because Lyndon Johnson signed it into law. LBJ was very racist as well: http://www.msnbc.com/msnbc/lyndon-johnson-civil-rights-racism
70s: Jimmy Carter, Democrat, economy sucked. 
80s: Economy Good: Ronald Reagan, USSR collapses. 
90s: Bill Clinton: eCommerce caused economic explosion world wide. Clinton is not responsible for eCommerce.
2000s-Present: A lot of Southern States became strongly republican around this time and the economies for the Southern States is growing.

Georgia List of Governors: First Republican Gov since reconstruction in 2003 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_governors_of_Georgia
Mississippi: First Republican post reconstruction 1992. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_governors_of_Mississippi 
:ouisiana: First Rep in 1980. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_governors_of_Louisiana
Alabama: First Rep gov 1987, currently has a Rep WOMAN https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_governors_of_Alabama

Southern economy in general has greatly improved lately as Democrat influence has slowly eroded. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_United_States

I live on planet reality. You do not.
 	From wikipedia:

&gt;In Guthrie's opposition to fascism, he conceptualized the ideology "as a form of economic exploitation similar to slavery," straightforwardly denouncing the fascists - particularly their leaders - as a group of gangsters who set out to 'rob the world'."[3] This recalled a protest strategy he had used "during the Great Depression, when social, political and economic inequality had been engendered by a small rich elite."[3]

Somehow the more things change the more they stay the same.
 	Yes? The 2007 financial crisis, the dotcom bubble, the Japanese crash and its fallout, the early 80s recession... before that was the oil shock, which was more of an external issue and thus a confounding factor. Further back of course ignoring the disruptive effects of world wars there was the Great Depression, the Long Depression, and many other more minor crises.
 	With or without Smoot-Hawley, the recession was worsening, and would continue to worsen until drastic fiscal steps were taken. Tariffs did not start the Great Depression (it was failed fiscal policy and regulatory failure), and it is difficult to prove that Smoot-Hawley did more damage than would have been done were nothing undertaken. I could argue just as successfully that removal of all tariffs would have had the same result.
 	Actually it lead to the greatest redistribution of wealth the largest middle class and and a rate of economic growth that was faster than the rate of economic decline during the great depression.
 	This happened in the early 70s before Reagan's ascent. He and the Repugs made it far worse by shifting funding from civil to military affairs in the 80s.  Downheartedbaby basically got it right.  States were not able to fully fund cmh after the oil crisis of 73. And WA got smacked with the Boeing Depression too.
 	At what point does the disruption caused by lockdown - economic depression, mass unemployment, widespread loss of small businesses - become worse than the disruption of the virus itself?
 	Real change takes maximum pressure on the political system and economy, we saw this with the civil rights movement leading to massive societal reform and great depression leading to the new deal. 
 Topic 6: 
 	 R W Y F E L T T I L G R J G V E J I Z Y 
    E K Z X M J C T S I K R S L M G A N K W 
    L A W G T G Q H P H Q Z G E N P N Y D E 
    Q E V E R Y G Y R S I K R I H J W N G S 
    Q F S U G U I Q I M W I S V T Z J I G U 
    A J S Z O P I V N C D S N H F K R Q R A 
    W F L R E Y O G G E E M I L R L P D E C 
    F R H Y K H N S S R T N L U F P A R A E 
    U T R V F Q U R P L K I H R A N V Z T B 
    L G I U I H B E Z F T K I X J U Z S C N 
    V L N Z W Y D Y I S S E K O I H K L A E 
    I Q U I B R E A K S N A S J A H C L K H 
    A J M I K O U E Q D J A U A F P O A Z Z 
    N E Y P Y C V V A Q Z T R L T L K B V M 
    G X Q L P I U O Z A Q E P F E I Z T Q L 
    Z I S U I F F F D P O J R I R R H I Z H 
    K F D S D T H T P X S C I B U P K H J D 
    V T W I N T E R S T K S S G Y A O S K S 
    I B N E V E R Q B B F M E F R L C Z O T 
    T L P O Y R A U R B E F D K F V P H Y R 
Find the words:

**GIRLFRIEND** **DEPRESSING** **SHITBALLS** **SURPRISED** **FEBRUARY** **WINTERS** **THROUGH** **BECAUSE** **FUCKING** **SPRINGS** **BREAKS** **LITTLE** **EVERY** **GREAT** **THINK** **APRIL** **AFTER** **STILL** **NEVER** **AWFUL**
 	Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

 United States:

 1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project
 1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline
 844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline
 888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline
 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.
 (The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)
 Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx
 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741
Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx
 Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

 EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

 Australia:

 13 11 14
 https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

 Austria:

 142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

 Belgium:

 Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/
 French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

 Brasil:

 141

 Canada:

 Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.
 Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

 Deutschland:

 http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/
 Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222
 Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

 Denmark:

 70 20 12 01
  www.livslinien.dk
 www.Skrivdet.dk

 Fiji:

 Lifeline Fiji:
 132454

 France:

 01 45 39 40 00
 Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

  Greece:

 1018 or 801 801 99 99
 Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

 Iceland:

 1717

 India:

 91-44-2464005 0
 022-27546669

 Iran:

 1480 6am to 9pm everyday
 Ireland:

 ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90
  ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

 Israel:

 1201

 Italia:

 800 86 00 22

 Malta:

 179

 Japan:

 Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org
 Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com
 Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org
 The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

 Korea:

 LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199
 http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

 Mexico:

  (55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

 Netherlands:

 0900 0113
 https://www.113.nl

 New Zealand:

 0800 543 354 Outside Auckland
 09 5222 999 Inside Auckland
 Norway:

 Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/
 Osterreich/Austria:

 116 123

 Portugal:

 SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/
 Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

 Romania:

 0800 801 200
 Serbia:

 0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393
 Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

 South Africa:

 LifeLine 0861 322 322
 Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

 Spain:

 http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

 Suomi/Finland:

 010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends
 112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

  Sverige/Sweden:

 020 22 00 60

 Switzerland:

 143

 UK:

 Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)
 Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)
 Text: 07725909090
 Email: emailjo@samaritans.org
 Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:
 Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)
 Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)
 Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/
 ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:
 Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)
 Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx
 Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx
 Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

 Uruguay:

 Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)
 (FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)
 Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

 	Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

 United States:

 1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project
 1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline
 844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline
 888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline
 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.
 (The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)
 Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx
 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741
Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx
 Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

 EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

 Australia:

 13 11 14
 https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

 Austria:

 142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

 Belgium:

 Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/
 French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

 Brasil:

 141

 Canada:

 Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.
 Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

 Deutschland:

 http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/
 Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222
 Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

 Denmark:

 70 20 12 01
  www.livslinien.dk
 www.Skrivdet.dk

 Fiji:

 Lifeline Fiji:
 132454

 France:

 01 45 39 40 00
 Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

  Greece:

 1018 or 801 801 99 99
 Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

 Iceland:

 1717

 India:

 91-44-2464005 0
 022-27546669

 Iran:

 1480 6am to 9pm everyday
 Ireland:

 ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90
  ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

 Israel:

 1201

 Italia:

 800 86 00 22

 Malta:

 179

 Japan:

 Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org
 Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com
 Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org
 The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

 Korea:

 LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199
 http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

 Mexico:

  (55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

 Netherlands:

 0900 0113
 https://www.113.nl

 New Zealand:

 0800 543 354 Outside Auckland
 09 5222 999 Inside Auckland
 Norway:

 Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/
 Osterreich/Austria:

 116 123

 Portugal:

 SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/
 Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

 Romania:

 0800 801 200
 Serbia:

 0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393
 Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

 South Africa:

 LifeLine 0861 322 322
 Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

 Spain:

 http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

 Suomi/Finland:

 010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends
 112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

  Sverige/Sweden:

 020 22 00 60

 Switzerland:

 143

 UK:

 Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)
 Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)
 Text: 07725909090
 Email: emailjo@samaritans.org
 Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:
 Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)
 Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)
 Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/
 ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:
 Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)
 Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx
 Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx
 Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

 Uruguay:

 Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)
 (FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)
 Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

 	Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

 United States:

 1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project
 1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline
 844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline
 888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline
 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.
 (The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)
 Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx
 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741
Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx
 Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

 EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

 Australia:

 13 11 14
 https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

 Austria:

 142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

 Belgium:

 Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/
 French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

 Brasil:

 141

 Canada:

 Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.
 Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

 Deutschland:

 http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/
 Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222
 Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

 Denmark:

 70 20 12 01
  www.livslinien.dk
 www.Skrivdet.dk

 Fiji:

 Lifeline Fiji:
 132454

 France:

 01 45 39 40 00
 Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

  Greece:

 1018 or 801 801 99 99
 Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

 Iceland:

 1717

 India:

 91-44-2464005 0
 022-27546669

 Iran:

 1480 6am to 9pm everyday
 Ireland:

 ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90
  ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

 Israel:

 1201

 Italia:

 800 86 00 22

 Malta:

 179

 Japan:

 Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org
 Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com
 Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org
 The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

 Korea:

 LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199
 http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

 Mexico:

  (55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

 Netherlands:

 0900 0113
 https://www.113.nl

 New Zealand:

 0800 543 354 Outside Auckland
 09 5222 999 Inside Auckland
 Norway:

 Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/
 Osterreich/Austria:

 116 123

 Portugal:

 SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/
 Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

 Romania:

 0800 801 200
 Serbia:

 0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393
 Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

 South Africa:

 LifeLine 0861 322 322
 Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

 Spain:

 http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

 Suomi/Finland:

 010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends
 112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

  Sverige/Sweden:

 020 22 00 60

 Switzerland:

 143

 UK:

 Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)
 Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)
 Text: 07725909090
 Email: emailjo@samaritans.org
 Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:
 Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)
 Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)
 Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/
 ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:
 Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)
 Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx
 Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx
 Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

 Uruguay:

 Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)
 (FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)
 Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

 	Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

 United States:

 1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project
 1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline
 844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline
 888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline
 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.
 (The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)
 Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx
 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741
Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx
 Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

 EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

 Australia:

 13 11 14
 https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

 Austria:

 142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

 Belgium:

 Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/
 French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

 Brasil:

 141

 Canada:

 Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.
 Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

 Deutschland:

 http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/
 Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222
 Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

 Denmark:

 70 20 12 01
  www.livslinien.dk
 www.Skrivdet.dk

 Fiji:

 Lifeline Fiji:
 132454

 France:

 01 45 39 40 00
 Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

  Greece:

 1018 or 801 801 99 99
 Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

 Iceland:

 1717

 India:

 91-44-2464005 0
 022-27546669

 Iran:

 1480 6am to 9pm everyday
 Ireland:

 ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90
  ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

 Israel:

 1201

 Italia:

 800 86 00 22

 Malta:

 179

 Japan:

 Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org
 Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com
 Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org
 The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

 Korea:

 LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199
 http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

 Mexico:

  (55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

 Netherlands:

 0900 0113
 https://www.113.nl

 New Zealand:

 0800 543 354 Outside Auckland
 09 5222 999 Inside Auckland
 Norway:

 Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/
 Osterreich/Austria:

 116 123

 Portugal:

 SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/
 Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

 Romania:

 0800 801 200
 Serbia:

 0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393
 Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

 South Africa:

 LifeLine 0861 322 322
 Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

 Spain:

 http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

 Suomi/Finland:

 010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends
 112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

  Sverige/Sweden:

 020 22 00 60

 Switzerland:

 143

 UK:

 Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)
 Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)
 Text: 07725909090
 Email: emailjo@samaritans.org
 Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:
 Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)
 Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)
 Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/
 ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:
 Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)
 Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx
 Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx
 Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

 Uruguay:

 Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)
 (FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)
 Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

 	Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

 United States:

 1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project
 1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline
 844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline
 888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline
 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.
 (The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)
 Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx
 Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741
Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx
 Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

 EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

 Australia:

 13 11 14
 https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

 Austria:

 142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

 Belgium:

 Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/
 French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

 Brasil:

 141

 Canada:

 Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.
 Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

 Deutschland:

 http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/
 Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222
 Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

 Denmark:

 70 20 12 01
  www.livslinien.dk
 www.Skrivdet.dk

 Fiji:

 Lifeline Fiji:
 132454

 France:

 01 45 39 40 00
 Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

  Greece:

 1018 or 801 801 99 99
 Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

 Iceland:

 1717

 India:

 91-44-2464005 0
 022-27546669

 Iran:

 1480 6am to 9pm everyday
 Ireland:

 ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90
  ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

 Israel:

 1201

 Italia:

 800 86 00 22

 Malta:

 179

 Japan:

 Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org
 Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com
 Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org
 The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

 Korea:

 LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199
 http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

 Mexico:

  (55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

 Netherlands:

 0900 0113
 https://www.113.nl

 New Zealand:

 0800 543 354 Outside Auckland
 09 5222 999 Inside Auckland
 Norway:

 Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/
 Osterreich/Austria:

 116 123

 Portugal:

 SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/
 Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

 Romania:

 0800 801 200
 Serbia:

 0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393
 Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

 South Africa:

 LifeLine 0861 322 322
 Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

 Spain:

 http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

 Suomi/Finland:

 010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends
 112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

  Sverige/Sweden:

 020 22 00 60

 Switzerland:

 143

 UK:

 Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)
 Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)
 Text: 07725909090
 Email: emailjo@samaritans.org
 Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:
 Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)
 Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)
 Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/
 ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:
 Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)
 Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx
 Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx
 Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

 Uruguay:

 Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)
 (FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)
 Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

 	Related to his passing and as I didn't see it posted, if you are having issues or concerns about yourself or a friend \ family member, there are people out there to talk to, that are anonymous and non-judgmental. 

&amp;nbsp;

This is from the /u/helperdroid (a bot that someone took the time to get this all together:

&amp;nbsp;



Helperdroid and its creator love you, here's some people that can help:

United States:

1 (866)-488-7366 - Trevor Project

1 (866) 488 7386 - Addiction Hotline

844 228 2962- Eating Disorder Hotline

888 640 5174 - Depression Hotline

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specialised support.

(The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)

Online Chat: http://chat.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/GetHelp/LifelineChat.aspx

Crisis Text Line: Text START to 741-741

Youth-Specific services (voice/text/chat/email) from the Boys' Town National Hotline: http://www.yourlifeyourvoice.org/Pages/ways-to-get-help.aspx

Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe

Australia:

13 11 14

https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

Austria:

142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

Belgium:

Dutch: 1813 https://www.zelfmoord1813.be/

French: 0800 32 123 http://www.preventionsuicide.be/fr/lesuicide.html

Brasil:

141

Canada:

Canada-wide adult hotlines list Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.

Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

Deutschland:

http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/

Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222

Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

Denmark:

70 20 12 01

www.livslinien.dk

www.Skrivdet.dk

Fiji:

Lifeline Fiji:

132454

France:

01 45 39 40 00

Suicide Écoute - http://www.suicide-ecoute.fr/

Greece:

1018 or 801 801 99 99

Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

Iceland:

1717

India:

91-44-2464005 0

022-27546669

Iran:

1480 6am to 9pm everyday

Ireland:

ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90

ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

Israel:

1201

Italia:

800 86 00 22

Malta:

179

Japan:

Tokyo - Japanese: 3 5286 9090 befrienders-jap.org

Tokyo - English: 03-5774-0992 telljp.com

Osaka - Japanese: 06-6260-4343 spc-osaka.org

The above sites maintain links to related resources in other cities and other formats like chat and text.

Korea:

LifeLine 1588-9191 Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199

http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

Mexico:

(55) 5259-8121 (Daily, 0900-2100h) saptel.org.mx

Netherlands:

0900 0113

https://www.113.nl

New Zealand:

0800 543 354 Outside Auckland

09 5222 999 Inside Auckland

Norway:

Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/

Osterreich/Austria:

116 123

Portugal:

SOS VOZ AMIGA: 21 354 45 45 or 91 280 26 69 or 96 352 46 60 (Daily, 1600-2400h) http://www.sosvozamiga.org/

Telefone da Amizade: 22 832 35 35 or 808 22 33 53 (Daily, 1600-2300h) http://www.telefone-amizade.pt/

Romania:

0800 801 200

Serbia:

0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393

Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

South Africa:

LifeLine 0861 322 322

Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

Spain:

http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

Suomi/Finland:

010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends

112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

Sverige/Sweden:

020 22 00 60

Switzerland:

143

UK:

Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)

Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)

Text: 07725909090

Email: emailjo@samaritans.org

Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:

Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)

Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)

Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/

ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:

Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)

Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx

Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx

Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

Uruguay:

Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)

(FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)

Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483
 	Isn't this part of a series, showing the stormtrooper at work, alone...stuff like that? yah, [here](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;client=safari&amp;rls=en&amp;biw=1573&amp;bih=1037&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=1&amp;q=photo+series+depressed+stormtrooper&amp;oq=photo+series+depressed+stormtrooper&amp;aq=f&amp;aqi=&amp;aql=&amp;gs_sm=e&amp;gs_upl=49685l53489l0l53611l22l22l0l21l0l0l30l30l1l1l0).
 	During the last depression, people who preferred to be jobless and homeless used to be called tramps. They did shitty crafts (carving [frames](http://www.google.com/search?um=1&amp;hl=en&amp;safe=off&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=735&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=1&amp;q=tramp+art&amp;oq=tramp+art&amp;aq=f&amp;aqi=g3&amp;aql=1&amp;gs_sm=e&amp;gs_upl=5284l6690l0l6733l6l6l0l1l1l1l268l1088l0.2.3l5l0) and [nickels](http://www.google.com/search?um=1&amp;hl=en&amp;safe=off&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=735&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=1&amp;q=hobo+nickel&amp;oq=hobo+nick&amp;aq=0&amp;aqi=g3&amp;aql=1&amp;gs_sm=e&amp;gs_upl=2690l4090l0l6027l5l4l0l2l2l0l266l419l0.1.1l2l0)) Some people even thought it was just fine to beat the life out of 'em. After all, they weren't like you and me, they were less than human.
 	Depressing? [How is this depressing?](http://www.google.com/search?q=silver+skillet+atlanta&amp;hl=en&amp;tbo=d&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=sLPIUPneBYaw8ATn5IDYBQ&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAA&amp;biw=1680&amp;bih=949)
 	If I sound pleased about this, it's only because my programmers made this my default tone of voice! I'm actually quite depressed!  
 ***  
 ^^^I'm&amp;#32;a&amp;#32;bot&amp;#32;*bleep*&amp;#32;*bloop*&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[&amp;#32;**Block**&amp;#32;**me**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=friendly-bot&amp;subject=stop&amp;message=If%20you%20would%20like%20to%20stop%20seeing%20this%20bot%27s%20comments%2C%20send%20this%20private%20message%20with%20the%20subject%20%27stop%27.%20)&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[**T҉he̛&amp;#32;L̨is̕t**](https://www.reddit.com/r/friendlybot/wiki/index)&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[❤️](https://www.reddit.com/r/friendlybot/comments/7hrupo/suggestions)
 	If I sound pleased about this, it's only because my programmers made this my default tone of voice! I'm actually quite depressed!  
 ***  
 ^^^I'm&amp;#32;a&amp;#32;bot&amp;#32;*bleep*&amp;#32;*bloop*&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[&amp;#32;**Block**&amp;#32;**me**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=friendly-bot&amp;subject=stop&amp;message=If%20you%20would%20like%20to%20stop%20seeing%20this%20bot%27s%20comments%2C%20send%20this%20private%20message%20with%20the%20subject%20%27stop%27.%20)&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[**T҉he̛&amp;#32;L̨is̕t**](https://www.reddit.com/r/friendlybot/wiki/index)&amp;#32;|&amp;#32;[❤️](https://www.reddit.com/r/friendlybot/comments/7hrupo/suggestions)
 	Silver Alert issued 05/03/14 at 3:25 PM. NYPD has issued a Silver Alert for the disappearance of Claudette Johnson Silver Alert issued 05/03/14 at 3:25 PM. NYPD has issued a Silver Alert for the disappearance of Claudette Johnson, female, white, 79 years old, from Herkimer Street and Sackman Street in Brooklyn. Ms. Johnson suffers from Alzheimer's, dementia, and depression. She is described as 5'0" tall, 100 lbs., and was last seen on Tuesday, April 22, 2014. A photo is attached. If you see Ms. Johnson, please call 9-1-1.

The sender included the following attachment:
https://phx-attachments.sendwordnow.com/Attachments.aspx?token=7f24b857-b741-4ce5-a2ca-db2f2e6697c3
 	Remember the woman and dog that were thrown to the ground and injured for life? Assailant caught, but No jail time, due to depression. - Rachael Rollins Suffolk County DA. 

[Suffolk DA Rachael Rollins admits she used 'not accurate](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=2ahUKEwiBpYLfkOPoAhWMct8KHUacAIQQFjAAegQIARAB&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bostonglobe.com%2Fmetro%2F2019%2F07%2F26%2Fdistrict-attorney-rachael-rollins-admits-she-used-not-accurate-information-defend-her-record%2FqfBnBspm50vKUBtMW9mP0H%2Fstory.html&amp;usg=AOvVaw2NXEz5Kp3IgWEjFOdS1yqn)
 	Buy an anti depression light 

https://www.amazon.com/EasyHome-Adjustable-Brightness-Temperature-Adjustment/dp/B09K77NYRT/ref=mp_s_a_1_2_sspa?adgrpid=55521331145&amp;gclid=Cj0KCQjwmouZBhDSARIsALYcourXejvx_qhXhos4s-X507Hu0PyVr0l9TXc5SPOmEeSVcFK18honbY8aAonoEALw_wcB&amp;hvadid=274690953996&amp;hvdev=m&amp;hvlocphy=9033315&amp;hvnetw=g&amp;hvqmt=e&amp;hvrand=13336778064592320647&amp;hvtargid=kwd-4163144535&amp;hydadcr=7819_9886126&amp;keywords=light+boxes+for+depression&amp;qid=1663288901&amp;sr=8-2-spons&amp;psc=1&amp;spLa=ZW5jcnlwdGVkUXVhbGlmaWVyPUEyNkVBWTI1Q0ZOWjU3JmVuY3J5cHRlZElkPUEwNDMzNzEwMkFYVEpFMVFUTUFDTCZlbmNyeXB0ZWRBZElkPUExMDIwNjMxVFlXUUZUUFJITkw2JndpZGdldE5hbWU9c3BfcGhvbmVfc2VhcmNoX2F0ZiZhY3Rpb249Y2xpY2tSZWRpcmVjdCZkb05vdExvZ0NsaWNrPXRydWU= 
 Topic 7: 
 	 Citations #2:

**Citations on the transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:**

* [**Pubertal Suppression for Transgender Youth and Risk of Suicidal Ideation**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073269/) - Turban, et al., 2020: Massive study of 20,619 adolescents examined associations between access to pubertal suppression and adult mental health outcomes, including multiple measures of suicidality. After adjustment for demographic variables and level of family support for gender identity, **those who received treatment with pubertal suppression, when compared with those who wanted pubertal suppression but did not receive it, had lower odds of lifetime suicidal ideation.**

* [**Association Between Gender-Affirming Surgeries and Mental Health Outcomes**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamasurgery/article-abstract/2779429) - Almazan, et. al. 2021: Trans people with a history of gender-affirming surgery had significantly lower odds of past-month psychological distress, past-year tobacco smoking, and past-year suicidal ideation compared with trans people with no history of gender-affirming surgery.

* [**The Mental Health of Transgender Youth: Advances in Understanding**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X1630146X) - Connolly, et. al, 2016: *"Gender-affirming medical therapy and supported social transition in childhood have been shown to correlate with improved psychological functioning for gender-variant children and adolescents."

* [**Chosen Name Use Is Linked to Reduced Depressive Symptoms, Suicidal Ideation, and Suicidal Behavior Among Transgender Youth**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X18300855) - Russell, et. al, 2018: *"After adjusting for personal characteristics and social support, chosen name use in more contexts was associated with lower depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior. Depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior were lowest when chosen names could be used in all four contexts."*

* [**Well-being and suicidality among transgender youth after gender-affirming hormones**](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2019-52280-009) - Watson, et. al, 2019: *"Results: After gender-affirming hormones, a significant increase in levels of general well-being and a significant decrease in levels of suicidality were observed."*

* [**Evaluation of Anxiety and Depression in a Community Sample of Transgender Youth**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2778206) - Dominic J. Gibson, et. al, 2021: ***Socially transitioned transgender youth had similar levels of anxiety and depression as their cisgender peers.***

* [**Bauer, et al., 2015**](http://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-015-1867-2): Transition vastly reduces risks of suicide attempts, and the farther along in transition someone is the lower that risk gets

* [**Moody, et al., 2013**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3722435/): The ability to transition, along with family and social acceptance, are the largest factors reducing suicide risk among trans people

* [**Young Adult Psychological Outcome After Puberty Suppression and Gender Reassignment**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2013-2958). A clinical protocol of a multidisciplinary team with mental health professionals, physicians, and surgeons, including puberty suppression, ... cross-sex hormones and gender reassignment surgery, provides trans youth the opportunity to develop into well-functioning young adults. All showed significant improvement in their psychological health, and they had notably lower rates of internalizing psychopathology than previously reported among trans children living as their natal sex. **Well-being was similar to or better than same-age young adults from the general population.**

* [**Access to gender-affirming hormones during adolescence and mental health outcomes among transgender adults (Turban, et al., 2022)**](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0261039): **Conclusion:** Access to GAH [gender-affirming hormones] during adolescence and adulthood is associated with favorable mental health outcomes compared to desiring but not accessing GAH.... In post hoc analyses, access to GAH during adolescence (ages 14–17) was associated with lower odds of past-year suicidal ideation (aOR = 0.7, 95% CI = 0.6–0.9, p = .0007) when compared to accessing GAH during adulthood.

* The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression. Early transition [**virtually eliminates these higher rates of depression and low self-worth**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaac.2016.10.016), and [**dramatically improves trans youth's mental health**](https://archive.thinkprogress.org/allowing-transgender-youth-to-transition-improves-their-mental-health-study-finds-dd6096523375/). **Trans kids who socially transition early and not subjected to abuse are comparable to cisgender children in measures of mental health.**

* [**Dr. Ryan Gorton**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3219066): “In a cross-sectional study of 141 transgender patients, Kuiper and Cohen-Kittenis found that after medical intervention and treatments, suicide fell from 19% to 0% in transgender men and from 24% to 6% in transgender women”

* [**Murad, et al., 2010**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19473181): "Significant decrease in suicidality post-treatment. The average reduction was from 30 percent pretreatment to 8 percent post treatment.

* [**De Cuypere, et al., 2006**](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1158136006000491): Rate of suicide attempts dropped from 29.3 percent to 5.1 percent after receiving medical treatment among Dutch patients treated from 1986-2001.

* [**UK study - McNeil, et al., 2012**](https://www.scottishtrans.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/trans_mh_study.pdf): "Suicidal ideation and actual attempts reduced after transition, with 63% thinking about or attempting suicide more before they transitioned and only 3% thinking about or attempting suicide more post-transition.

* [**Smith Y, 2005**](http://orca.cf.ac.uk/32618/1/Smith%202005.pdf): Participants improved on 13 out of 14 mental health measures after treatment

* [**Lawrence, 2003**](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1024086814364): Surveyed post-op trans folk: "Participants reported overwhelmingly that they were happy with their SRS results and that SRS had greatly improved the quality of their lives

* [**Reduction in Mental Health Treatment Utilization Among Transgender Individuals After Gender-Affirming Surgeries: A Total Population Study**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.ajp.2019.19010080) - "***Conclusions:*** *"... the longitudinal association between gender-affirming surgery and reduced likelihood of mental health treatment lends support to the decision to provide gender-affirming surgeries to transgender individuals who seek them."*

There are a [***lot***](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24344788) of [**studies**](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10508-009-9551-1) showing that [**transition**](https://mayoclinic.pure.elsevier.com/en/publications/hormonal-therapy-and-sex-reassignment-a-systematic-review-and-met) [**improves**](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/tswj/2014/960745/) [**mental health**](http://europepmc.org/abstract/med/25690443) and [**quality of life**](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10508-014-0453-5) while [**reducing dysphoria**](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/23553588_Long-term_Assessment_of_the_Physical_Mental_and_Sexual_Health_among_Transsexual_Women). 

Not to mention [**this 2010 meta-analysis**](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2265.2009.03625.x/abstract) of 28 different studies, which found that transition is extremely effective at reducing dysphoria and improving quality of life.
 	**#2a:**

**Citations on transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:**

* [**Long-term Outcomes After Gender-Affirming Surgery: 40-Year Follow-up Study**](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36149983/) - Park, et. al., 2022: **Results:** Both transmasculine and transfeminine groups were more satisfied with their body postoperatively with significantly less dysphoria. Body congruency score for chest, body hair, and voice improved significantly in 40 years' postoperative settings, with average scores ranging from 84.2 to 96.2. Body congruency scores for genitals ranged from 67.5 to 79 with free flap phalloplasty showing highest scores. Long-term overall body congruency score was 89.6. **Improved mental health outcomes persisted following surgery with significantly reduced suicidal ideation and reported resolution of any mental health comorbidity secondary to gender dysphoria.**

* [**Pubertal Suppression for Transgender Youth and Risk of Suicidal Ideation**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073269/) - Turban, et al., 2020: Massive study of 20,619 adolescents examined associations between access to pubertal suppression and adult mental health outcomes, including multiple measures of suicidality. After adjustment for demographic variables and level of family support for gender identity, **those who received treatment with pubertal suppression, when compared with those who wanted pubertal suppression but did not receive it, had lower odds of lifetime suicidal ideation.**

* [**Psychosocial Functioning in Transgender Youth after 2 Years of Hormones**](https://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/NEJMoa2206297) - Chen, et. al., 2023: A study of 315 trans and nonbinary young people ages 12 to 20 receiving testosterone or estradiol. Over the course of the two year study depression and anxiety levels dropped and appearance congruence and life satisfaction improved.

* [**Association of Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy With Depression, Thoughts of Suicide, and Attempted Suicide Among Transgender and Nonbinary Youth**](https://www.jahonline.org/article/S1054-139X(21\)00568-1/fulltext) - Green, et. al., 2021: Use of GAHT (Gender Affirming Hormone Treatment) was associated with lower odds of recent depression and seriously considering suicide compared to those who wanted GAHT but did not receive it. For youth under age 18, GAHT was associated with lower odds of recent depression and of a past-year suicide attempt

* [**Association Between Gender-Affirming Surgeries and Mental Health Outcomes**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamasurgery/article-abstract/2779429) - Almazan, et. al. 2021: Trans people with a history of gender-affirming surgery had significantly lower odds of past-month psychological distress, past-year tobacco smoking, and past-year suicidal ideation compared with trans people with no history of gender-affirming surgery.

* [**The Mental Health of Transgender Youth: Advances in Understanding**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X1630146X) - Connolly, et. al, 2016: ***"Gender-affirming medical therapy and supported social transition in childhood have been shown to correlate with improved psychological functioning for gender-variant children and adolescents."***

* [**Top surgery drastically improves quality of life for young transgender people**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapediatrics/fullarticle/2796426?guestAccessKey=c50d5d6e-7fa1-4ed8-8b5d-f4da9753364d&utm_source=For_The_Media&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=ftm_links&utm_content=tfl&utm_term=092622)

* [**Chosen Name Use Is Linked to Reduced Depressive Symptoms, Suicidal Ideation, and Suicidal Behavior Among Transgender Youth**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X18300855) - Russell, et. al, 2018: *"After adjusting for personal characteristics and social support, chosen name use in more contexts was associated with lower depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior. Depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior were lowest when chosen names could be used in all four contexts."*

* [**Well-being and suicidality among transgender youth after gender-affirming hormones**](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2019-52280-009) - Watson, et. al, 2019: *"Results: After gender-affirming hormones, a significant increase in levels of general well-being and a significant decrease in levels of suicidality were observed."*

* [**Evaluation of Anxiety and Depression in a Community Sample of Transgender Youth**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2778206) - Dominic J. Gibson, et. al, 2021: ***Socially transitioned transgender youth had similar levels of anxiety and depression as their cisgender peers.***

* [**Intervenable factors associated with suicide risk in transgender persons: a respondent driven sampling study in Ontario, Canada**](http://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-015-1867-2) - Bauer, et al., 2015: Transition vastly reduces risks of suicide attempts, and the farther along in transition someone is the lower that risk gets

* [**Suicide Protective Factors Among Trans Adults**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3722435/) - Moody, et al., 2013: The ability to transition, along with family and social acceptance, are the largest factors reducing suicide risk among trans people

* [**Young Adult Psychological Outcome After Puberty Suppression and Gender Reassignment**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2013-2958). A clinical protocol of a multidisciplinary team with mental health professionals, physicians, and surgeons, including puberty suppression, ... cross-sex hormones and gender reassignment surgery, provides trans youth the opportunity to develop into well-functioning young adults. All showed significant improvement in their psychological health, and they had notably lower rates of internalizing psychopathology than previously reported among trans children living as their natal sex. **Well-being was similar to or better than same-age young adults from the general population.**

* [**Access to gender-affirming hormones during adolescence and mental health outcomes among transgender adults**](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0261039) - Turban, et al., 2022: **Conclusion:** Access to GAH [gender-affirming hormones] during adolescence and adulthood is associated with favorable mental health outcomes compared to desiring but not accessing GAH.... In post hoc analyses, access to GAH during adolescence (ages 14–17) was associated with lower odds of past-year suicidal ideation (aOR = 0.7, 95% CI = 0.6–0.9, p = .0007) when compared to accessing GAH during adulthood.

* The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression. Early transition [**virtually eliminates these higher rates of depression and low self-worth**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaac.2016.10.016), and [**dramatically improves trans youth's mental health**](https://archive.thinkprogress.org/allowing-transgender-youth-to-transition-improves-their-mental-health-study-finds-dd6096523375/). **Trans kids who socially transition early and not subjected to abuse are comparable to cisgender children in measures of mental health.**
 	
**Citations on transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:**

* [**Long-term Outcomes After Gender-Affirming Surgery: 40-Year Follow-up Study**](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36149983/) - Park, et. al., 2022: **Results:** Both transmasculine and transfeminine groups were more satisfied with their body postoperatively with significantly less dysphoria. Body congruency score for chest, body hair, and voice improved significantly in 40 years' postoperative settings, with average scores ranging from 84.2 to 96.2. Body congruency scores for genitals ranged from 67.5 to 79 with free flap phalloplasty showing highest scores. Long-term overall body congruency score was 89.6. **Improved mental health outcomes persisted following surgery with significantly reduced suicidal ideation and reported resolution of any mental health comorbidity secondary to gender dysphoria.**

* [**Pubertal Suppression for Transgender Youth and Risk of Suicidal Ideation**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073269/) - Turban, et al., 2020: Massive study of 20,619 adolescents examined associations between access to pubertal suppression and adult mental health outcomes, including multiple measures of suicidality. After adjustment for demographic variables and level of family support for gender identity, **those who received treatment with pubertal suppression, when compared with those who wanted pubertal suppression but did not receive it, had lower odds of lifetime suicidal ideation.**

* [**Psychosocial Functioning in Transgender Youth after 2 Years of Hormones**](https://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/NEJMoa2206297) - Chen, et. al., 2023: A study of 315 trans and nonbinary young people ages 12 to 20 receiving testosterone or estradiol. Over the course of the two year study depression and anxiety levels dropped and appearance congruence and life satisfaction improved.

* [**Association of Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy With Depression, Thoughts of Suicide, and Attempted Suicide Among Transgender and Nonbinary Youth**](https://www.jahonline.org/article/S1054-139X(21\)00568-1/fulltext) - Green, et. al., 2021: Use of GAHT (Gender Affirming Hormone Treatment) was associated with lower odds of recent depression and seriously considering suicide compared to those who wanted GAHT but did not receive it. For youth under age 18, GAHT was associated with lower odds of recent depression and of a past-year suicide attempt

* [**Association Between Gender-Affirming Surgeries and Mental Health Outcomes**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamasurgery/article-abstract/2779429) - Almazan, et. al. 2021: Trans people with a history of gender-affirming surgery had significantly lower odds of past-month psychological distress, past-year tobacco smoking, and past-year suicidal ideation compared with trans people with no history of gender-affirming surgery.

* [**The Mental Health of Transgender Youth: Advances in Understanding**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X1630146X) - Connolly, et. al, 2016: ***"Gender-affirming medical therapy and supported social transition in childhood have been shown to correlate with improved psychological functioning for gender-variant children and adolescents."***

* [**Top surgery drastically improves quality of life for young transgender people**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapediatrics/fullarticle/2796426?guestAccessKey=c50d5d6e-7fa1-4ed8-8b5d-f4da9753364d&utm_source=For_The_Media&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=ftm_links&utm_content=tfl&utm_term=092622)

* [**Chosen Name Use Is Linked to Reduced Depressive Symptoms, Suicidal Ideation, and Suicidal Behavior Among Transgender Youth**](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1054139X18300855) - Russell, et. al, 2018: *"After adjusting for personal characteristics and social support, chosen name use in more contexts was associated with lower depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior. Depression, suicidal ideation, and suicidal behavior were lowest when chosen names could be used in all four contexts."*

* [**Well-being and suicidality among transgender youth after gender-affirming hormones**](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2019-52280-009) - Watson, et. al, 2019: *"Results: After gender-affirming hormones, a significant increase in levels of general well-being and a significant decrease in levels of suicidality were observed."*

* [**Evaluation of Anxiety and Depression in a Community Sample of Transgender Youth**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2778206) - Dominic J. Gibson, et. al, 2021: ***Socially transitioned transgender youth had similar levels of anxiety and depression as their cisgender peers.***

* [**Intervenable factors associated with suicide risk in transgender persons: a respondent driven sampling study in Ontario, Canada**](http://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-015-1867-2) - Bauer, et al., 2015: Transition vastly reduces risks of suicide attempts, and the farther along in transition someone is the lower that risk gets

* [**Suicide Protective Factors Among Trans Adults**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3722435/) - Moody, et al., 2013: The ability to transition, along with family and social acceptance, are the largest factors reducing suicide risk among trans people

* [**Young Adult Psychological Outcome After Puberty Suppression and Gender Reassignment**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2013-2958). A clinical protocol of a multidisciplinary team with mental health professionals, physicians, and surgeons, including puberty suppression, ... cross-sex hormones and gender reassignment surgery, provides trans youth the opportunity to develop into well-functioning young adults. All showed significant improvement in their psychological health, and they had notably lower rates of internalizing psychopathology than previously reported among trans children living as their natal sex. **Well-being was similar to or better than same-age young adults from the general population.**

* [**Access to gender-affirming hormones during adolescence and mental health outcomes among transgender adults**](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0261039) - Turban, et al., 2022: **Conclusion:** Access to GAH [gender-affirming hormones] during adolescence and adulthood is associated with favorable mental health outcomes compared to desiring but not accessing GAH.... In post hoc analyses, access to GAH during adolescence (ages 14–17) was associated with lower odds of past-year suicidal ideation (aOR = 0.7, 95% CI = 0.6–0.9, p = .0007) when compared to accessing GAH during adulthood.

* The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression. Early transition [**virtually eliminates these higher rates of depression and low self-worth**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaac.2016.10.016), and [**dramatically improves trans youth's mental health**](https://archive.thinkprogress.org/allowing-transgender-youth-to-transition-improves-their-mental-health-study-finds-dd6096523375/). **Trans kids who socially transition early and not subjected to abuse are comparable to cisgender children in measures of mental health.**
 	**#2b:**

**More citations on transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:**

* [**Sex reassignment surgery: a study of 141 Dutch transsexuals**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01542484) - Kuiper, et al, 1988: “In a cross-sectional study of 141 transgender patients, Kuiper and Cohen-Kittenis found that after medical intervention and treatments, suicide fell from 19% to 0% in transgender men and from 24% to 6% in transgender women”

* [**Hormonal therapy and sex reassignment: a systematic review and meta-analysis of quality of life and psychosocial outcomes**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19473181) - Murad, et al., 2010: "Significant decrease in suicidality post-treatment. The average reduction was from 30 percent pretreatment to 8 percent post treatment.

* [**Long-term follow-up: psychosocial outcome of Belgian transsexuals after sex reassignment surgery**](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1158136006000491) - De Cuypere, et al., 2006: Rate of suicide attempts dropped from 29.3 percent to 5.1 percent after receiving medical treatment among Dutch patients treated from 1986-2001.

* [**Trans Mental Health and Emotional Wellbeing Study**](https://www.scottishtrans.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/trans_mh_study.pdf) - McNeil, et al., 2012: "Suicidal ideation and actual attempts reduced after transition, with 63% thinking about or attempting suicide more before they transitioned and only 3% thinking about or attempting suicide more post-transition.

* [**Sex reassignment: outcomes and predictors of treatment for adolescent and adult transsexuals**](http://orca.cf.ac.uk/32618/1/Smith%202005.pdf) - Smith Y, et. al, 2005: Participants improved on 13 out of 14 mental health measures after treatment

* [**Factors Associated with Satisfaction or Regret Following Male-to-Female Sex Reassignment Surgery**](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1024086814364) - Lawrence, 2003: *"Participants reported overwhelmingly that they were happy with their SRS results and that SRS had greatly improved the quality of their lives"*

* [**Reduction in Mental Health Treatment Utilization Among Transgender Individuals After Gender-Affirming Surgeries: A Total Population Study**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.ajp.2019.19010080) - "***Conclusions:*** *"... the longitudinal association between gender-affirming surgery and reduced likelihood of mental health treatment lends support to the decision to provide gender-affirming surgeries to transgender individuals who seek them."*

* [**Mental Health Outcomes in Transgender and Nonbinary Youths Receiving Gender-Affirming Care - Tordoff, et al, 2022**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2789423?utm_campaign=articlePDF&utm_medium=articlePDFlink&utm_source=articlePDF&utm_content=jamanetworkopen.2022.0978) - *"After adjustment for temporal trends and potential confounders, we observed* ***60% lower odds of depression and 73% lower odds of suicidality among youths who had initiated PBs or GAHs compared with youths who had not."***

* [**Mental Health of Transgender Children Who Are Supported in Their Identities - Olson, et. al., 2016**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4771131/?fbclid=IwAR2A2wM8oQZ_avmXLmBgp6ilGqiQd_WNAkmNOZosWHY7rsyT8KB-dvxwcd4): *"Previous work with children with gender identity disorder (GID; now termed gender dysphoria) has found remarkably high rates of anxiety and depression in these children. Here we examine, for the first time, mental health in a sample of socially transitioned transgender children"* ... ***"Results:*** *Transgender children showed no elevations in depression and slightly elevated anxiety relative to population averages. They did not differ from the control groups on depression symptoms and had only marginally higher anxiety symptoms.* This article has a [**correction from 2018**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8194467/) but it's just for a missing comma on p. 5.

There are a lot more but I think that's a good start.
 	**More citations on transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:**

* [**Sex reassignment surgery: a study of 141 Dutch transsexuals**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01542484) - Kuiper, et al, 1988: “In a cross-sectional study of 141 transgender patients, Kuiper and Cohen-Kittenis found that after medical intervention and treatments, suicide fell from 19% to 0% in transgender men and from 24% to 6% in transgender women”

* [**Hormonal therapy and sex reassignment: a systematic review and meta-analysis of quality of life and psychosocial outcomes**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19473181) - Murad, et al., 2010: "Significant decrease in suicidality post-treatment. The average reduction was from 30 percent pretreatment to 8 percent post treatment.

* [**Long-term follow-up: psychosocial outcome of Belgian transsexuals after sex reassignment surgery**](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1158136006000491) - De Cuypere, et al., 2006: Rate of suicide attempts dropped from 29.3 percent to 5.1 percent after receiving medical treatment among Dutch patients treated from 1986-2001.

* [**Trans Mental Health and Emotional Wellbeing Study**](https://www.scottishtrans.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/trans_mh_study.pdf) - McNeil, et al., 2012: "Suicidal ideation and actual attempts reduced after transition, with 63% thinking about or attempting suicide more before they transitioned and only 3% thinking about or attempting suicide more post-transition.

* [**Sex reassignment: outcomes and predictors of treatment for adolescent and adult transsexuals**](http://orca.cf.ac.uk/32618/1/Smith%202005.pdf) - Smith Y, et. al, 2005: Participants improved on 13 out of 14 mental health measures after treatment

* [**Factors Associated with Satisfaction or Regret Following Male-to-Female Sex Reassignment Surgery**](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1024086814364) - Lawrence, 2003: *"Participants reported overwhelmingly that they were happy with their SRS results and that SRS had greatly improved the quality of their lives"*

* [**Reduction in Mental Health Treatment Utilization Among Transgender Individuals After Gender-Affirming Surgeries: A Total Population Study**](https://sci-hub.se/https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.ajp.2019.19010080) - "***Conclusions:*** *"... the longitudinal association between gender-affirming surgery and reduced likelihood of mental health treatment lends support to the decision to provide gender-affirming surgeries to transgender individuals who seek them."*

* [**Mental Health Outcomes in Transgender and Nonbinary Youths Receiving Gender-Affirming Care - Tordoff, et al, 2022**](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2789423?utm_campaign=articlePDF&utm_medium=articlePDFlink&utm_source=articlePDF&utm_content=jamanetworkopen.2022.0978) - *"After adjustment for temporal trends and potential confounders, we observed* ***60% lower odds of depression and 73% lower odds of suicidality among youths who had initiated PBs or GAHs compared with youths who had not."***

* [**Mental Health of Transgender Children Who Are Supported in Their Identities - Olson, et. al., 2016**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4771131/?fbclid=IwAR2A2wM8oQZ_avmXLmBgp6ilGqiQd_WNAkmNOZosWHY7rsyT8KB-dvxwcd4): *"Previous work with children with gender identity disorder (GID; now termed gender dysphoria) has found remarkably high rates of anxiety and depression in these children. Here we examine, for the first time, mental health in a sample of socially transitioned transgender children"* ... ***"Results:*** *Transgender children showed no elevations in depression and slightly elevated anxiety relative to population averages. They did not differ from the control groups on depression symptoms and had only marginally higher anxiety symptoms.* This article has a [**correction from 2018**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8194467/) but it's just for a missing comma on p. 5.

There are a lot more but I think that's a good start.
 	THIS IS A MYTH!

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suicide_prevention

&gt;Researchers and health policy planners have theorized and demonstrated that restricting lethal means can help reduce suicide rates, as delaying action until depression passes.[28] In general, **strong evidence supports the effectiveness of means restriction in preventing suicides.[29] *There is also strong evidence that restricted access at so-called suicide hotspots, such as bridges and cliffs, reduces suicides*,** whereas other interventions such as placing signs or increasing surveillance at these sites appears less effective.[30]
 	[Preventing Occupational Exposure to Emergency Responders - CDC.gov](https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/fentanyl/risk.html)

&gt; Fentanyl and its analogues pose a potential hazard to a variety of responders who could come into contact with these drugs in the course of their work. Possible exposure routes to fentanyl and its analogues can vary based on the source and form of the drug. Responders are most likely to encounter illicitly manufactured fentanyl and its analogues in powder, tablet, and liquid form.  Potential exposure routes of greatest concern include inhalation, mucous membrane contact, ingestion, and percutaneous exposure (e.g., needlestick).  Any of these exposure routes can potentially result in a variety of symptoms that can include the rapid onset of life-threatening respiratory depression. Skin contact is also a potential exposure route, but is not likely to lead to overdose unless large volumes of highly concentrated powder are encountered over an extended period of time.  Brief skin contact with fentanyl or its analogues is not expected to lead to toxic effects if any visible contamination is promptly removed.  There are no established federal or consensus occupational exposure limits for fentanyl or its analogues.
 	Relevant section from the study text

>The increased prevalence of comorbid conditions does not appear to be simply attributable to the aging of the birthing population. The proportion of births for teens fell from 2.8% in 2016 to 1.8% in the beginning of 2023, consistent with national data suggesting a declining adolescent birth rate.19 Conversely, from 2016 to 2023, births among those aged 35–39 years increased from 15.0% to 18.4%, and births among those aged 40 year or older increased from 3.2% to 4.4% (data not shown). However, the increase in comorbid conditions also occurred for younger individuals over this period. For example, among births to those younger than 30, coding increased for HDP (3.1% to 7.7%), anemia (11.1% to 20.2%), gestational diabetes (2.6% to 3.5%), other chronic comorbidities (4.0% to 6.3%), depression (2.5% to 6.9%), and serious mental illness (0.9% to 1.5%) (data not shown). This suggests that an overall deterioration in the health of the reproductive-age population is driving adverse birth outcomes in Illinois rather than solely increasing maternal age.
 	Bullshit.  


The CDC guidelines for first responders:

&gt; Fentanyl and its analogues pose a potential hazard to a variety of responders who could come into contact with these drugs in the course of their work. Possible exposure routes to fentanyl and its analogues can vary based on the source and form of the drug. Responders are most likely to encounter illicitly manufactured fentanyl and its analogues in powder, tablet, and liquid form.  Potential exposure routes of greatest concern include inhalation, mucous membrane contact, ingestion, and percutaneous exposure (e.g., needlestick).  Any of these exposure routes can potentially result in a variety of symptoms that can include the rapid onset of life-threatening respiratory depression. Skin contact is also a potential exposure route, but is not likely to lead to overdose unless large volumes of highly concentrated powder are encountered over an extended period of time.  Brief skin contact with fentanyl or its analogues is not expected to lead to toxic effects if any visible contamination is promptly removed.


source: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/fentanyl/risk.html
 	>**two-thirds (67%) of unhoused persons were diagnosed with a current psychiatric disorder. The most common was substance use disorder.** Alcohol use disorder occurred in over 25% of these individuals, and substance use disorders, including alcohol use disorder, occurred in over 43%.

>**Unhoused individuals experienced psychotic disorders at a markedly increased rate compared to the general population.** In some studies, about 14% of those experiencing homelessness were diagnosed with a psychotic disorder. In other studies, about 7% were diagnosed with schizophrenia and 8% with bipolar disorder. Although not specifically reported in this study, many individuals with psychotic disorders also have substance use disorders.

>**Antisocial personality disorder**, major depression, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder were also common in unhoused individuals, occurring in about **26%**, 19%, 14%, and 10.5%, respectively.

>**The overall lifetime prevalence of psychiatric disorders among individuals experiencing homelessness was estimated to be 75%.** It was higher for men (86%) than for women (69%).

>[https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness)

Those kinds of problems require institutionalization or containment.  A significant segment among these will destroy the housing that they have, which is how they ended up where they are.
 	I agree regarding putting up barriers as a potential means of reducing suicide. For record, I’m also not arguing against more strict gun ownership requirements. However, those who want to commit suicide, will continue to seek out ways to do so. 

I also agree that having a gun nearby makes it far easier and more likely that a completed suicide will occur. However, states such as Mississippi and Alabama have very high gun ownership rates but low rates of (adolescent) suicide (fastest growing category). So the relationship isn’t as clear. Furthermore, prevalence of symptoms that often result in suicide (MH disorders in general and illicit substance use) are independent of gun ownership. Suicidal ideation (and factors perpetrating those ideations) are the cause and driving factor of suicide as well as other detrimental outcomes. Illinois for example has relatively low firearm ownership rates, but has a quickly growing rate of depression and suicide especially in adolescents. 

Lastly, I would like to point out that roughly 10% of suicide attempts are done with guns, meaning a huge percentage are attempted by other means. Successful suicides are almost 60% firearm related, so firearms are (sadly) the most effective. It’s a curse and a blessing, able to save lives or take many. It really depends on the bearer of the tool.
 	This organization is guided by the national American Academy of Pediatrics which recently [put out guidance](https://services.aap.org/en/pages/2019-novel-coronavirus-covid-19-infections/clinical-guidance/covid-19-planning-considerations-return-to-in-person-education-in-schools/) for re-opening schools. Their reasoning is pretty straightforward:

&gt;**The AAP strongly advocates that all policy considerations for the coming school year should start with a goal of having students physically present in school**. The importance of in-person learning is well-documented, and there is already evidence of the negative impacts on children because of school closures in the spring of 2020. Lengthy time away from school and associated interruption of supportive services often results in social isolation, making it difficult for schools to identify and address important learning deficits as well as child and adolescent physical or sexual abuse, substance use, depression, and suicidal ideation. This, in turn, places children and adolescents at considerable risk of morbidity and, in some cases, mortality. Beyond the educational impact and social impact of school closures, there has been substantial impact on food security and physical activity for children and families.
 	>**two-thirds (67%) of unhoused persons were diagnosed with a current psychiatric disorder**. The most common was substance use disorder. Alcohol use disorder occurred in over 25% of these individuals, and substance use disorders, including alcohol use disorder, occurred in over 43%.

>**Unhoused individuals experienced psychotic disorders at a markedly increased rate compared to the general population**. In some studies, about 14% of those experiencing homelessness were diagnosed with a psychotic disorder. In other studies, about 7% were diagnosed with schizophrenia and 8% with bipolar disorder. Although not specifically reported in this study, many individuals with psychotic disorders also have substance use disorders.

>Antisocial personality disorder, major depression, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder were also common in unhoused individuals, occurring in about 26%, 19%, 14%, and 10.5%, respectively.

>**The overall lifetime prevalence of psychiatric disorders among individuals experiencing homelessness was estimated to be 75%.** It was higher for men (86%) than for women (69%).

>[https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness)

These problems will be far more prevalent among the unsheltered, such as those who are in encampments, because these disorders will keep them out of shelters.

Just so long as officials continue to ignore the root causes, their solutions will fail.
 	

1. The National Survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing: This survey, conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, provides comprehensive data on the prevalence of mental health conditions in Australia, as well as factors that may contribute to poor mental health.
2. The Australian Longitudinal Study on Women's Health: This study examines the mental health of women over time, with a particular focus on the impact of life events and social factors on mental health outcomes.
3. The Australian Child and Adolescent Survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing: This survey provides information on the mental health of young people in Australia, including rates of mental health conditions and factors that may contribute to poor mental health outcomes.
4. The Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) Survey: This survey provides information on a range of social and economic factors, including employment, income, and education, that may impact mental health outcomes in Australia.
5. The Black Dog Institute: The Black Dog Institute is a mental health research organization that conducts research on a range of mental health issues in Australia, including depression, anxiety, and suicide prevention.
 	>**two-thirds (67%) of unhoused persons were diagnosed with a current psychiatric disorder.** The most common was substance use disorder. Alcohol use disorder occurred in over 25% of these individuals, and substance use disorders, including alcohol use disorder, occurred in over 43%.

>**Unhoused individuals experienced psychotic disorders at a markedly increased rate compared to the general population.** In some studies, about 14% of those experiencing homelessness were diagnosed with a psychotic disorder. In other studies, about 7% were diagnosed with schizophrenia and 8% with bipolar disorder. Although not specifically reported in this study, many individuals with psychotic disorders also have substance use disorders.

>**Antisocial personality disorder**, major depression, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder were also common in unhoused individuals, occurring in about **26%**, 19%, 14%, and 10.5%, respectively.

>**The overall lifetime prevalence of psychiatric disorders among individuals experiencing homelessness was estimated to be 75%.** It was higher for men (86%) than for women (69%).

>[https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/demystifying-psychiatry/202406/psychiatric-disorders-and-homelessness)

According to the county health department, overdose is the leading cause of death among the homeless, with an overdose fatality rate that is 40 times greater than the county as a whole. 
 Topic 8: 
 	 The OPs picture, and even more so this comment in conjunction with the OPs pic, is kinda wicked depressing actually.
 	Well, that was a depressing and frustrating read.  What a damn shame!
 	There are a bunch of really good players on this list, so that makes it a little less depressing, I guess
 	I’m going there today I wonder if he’s still there.... that’s really really depressing. Not the kind of thing I’m used to seeing around here lol.
 	Looks like a good read but probably incredibly depressing and aggravating.
 	I can think of one thing sadder, funnier, and more depressing. Trump. 

…oh wait, no, that’s the same thing actually.
 	IT'LL BE MORE SAD ANGRY. THE GANDOLFINI THING IS REALLY FUCKING DEPRESSING
 	Damn that is really, really depressing but I think you're totally right.
 	Its really depressing going in there now - they must have 1/100th of what they used to.

They probably have some ties though.
 	The weird thing is I actually hate heatwaves but I think this is why summer makes me less depressed, it makes me angry instead
 	Eh. Kind of I guess? To me it seems more depressing than anything else. Want to see post apocalyptic? Head down to the Salton Sea.
 	Oooh, that’s pretty. I mean, also gross and a little depressing but, in its own way, it’s still pretty.
 	WOW. I didn't get to catch the 10 o'clock news, no sendoff? That's pretty shitty. No wonder she seems depressed.
 	Well, that was really depressing to read.
 	Jesus Christ that’s a depressing but unsurprising read :/ 
 Topic 9: 
 	 “The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.” 
― David Foster Wallace, Infinite Jest
 	I'll quote this again here because it's really relevant to your comment: “The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.” -DFW

I can think of lots of things that are more selfish and destructive than deciding to abandon earth from a bridge.
 	Very true. Always think of this quote when I hear someone say they know what was going through a person's head before they commit suicide: 

    “The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.” -DFW
 	He felt helpless and trapped. To quote David Foster Wallace: “The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.”
 	You have a fundamental misunderstanding of what people who attempt suicide are going through. The way you put "unhappy" in quotes shows you have no clue about what you're talking about. 

I think David Foster Wallace puts it best: 

&gt;“The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.”


 	I had to google it. Very powerful. I assume you mean this one:

*"The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling."*
 	"The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling." -David Foster Wallace. RIP fellow classmate.
 	&gt;The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.

- David Foster Wallace
 	&gt;	The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.
 	&gt;“The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.”

  David Foster Wallace
 	And here I will repost the same David Foster Wallace quote that I do every time some stupid fucknut calls those who kill themselves cowards:

&gt; The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.
 	Reminded of this quote by David Foster Wallace:

&gt;The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.
 	&gt;The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn't do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life's assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire's flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It's not desiring the fall; it's terror of the flames. Yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don‘t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You'd have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.

-David Foster Wallace
 	I share this quote whenever this topic comes up, Ive never read anything thats been the best explanation for my depression better than this
“The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.” -David Foster Wallace
 	They deleted their post before I could respond, but I wanted to share this quote from *Infinite Jest*:

&gt;The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling

David Foster Wallace 
 Topic 10: 
 	 Delaware Valley Regional Transit Authority , My Transit Vision for the Region My Transit Vision for the Delaware River Valley , the merging of SEPTA , PATCO and the Southern New Jersey Transit Divisions into a New Agency called DVRTA or Delaware Valley Regional Transit Authority.    I’m not a fan of the way SEPTA is so poorly run at least on the higher up level , the employees the most part aren’t the problem in my opinion.     Seeing how they are the only system that has not expanded in the last 20 years beyond a few small restorations compared to other neighboring agencies.      Its very painful to see all the abandoned trackage or trackage that is used for rail trails while the highways in the region increasingly clog with congestion.     The South Jersey Rail network is in a similar state as Trenton ignores its potential , and has not advanced any of the RiverLINE extensions which would greatly boost ridership.

It has taken me over 6 years to slowly build out and tweak this map which I consider the Rough draft for the final version that will be created with Adobe Illustrator or Affinity Designer and posted in PDF format.    In about a year or so.     I’m no stranger to the Philly Region or South Jersey have ridden just about every Rail line with the exception of Routes 10, 11, 13, 34, and 36 , Broad Street Spur , Doylestown Branch , Warminster Branch , Newark/Wilmington , and Cynwyd Line which I hope to all Ride on by next Summer.    I've taken over 2600 photos across Philadelphia , Southeastern Pennsylvania and South Jersey.  

**[The Map](https://www.google.com/maps/d/edit?hl=en&amp;mid=16NJdQyX8pERrEfQTeFvzpdX1ivw&amp;ll=39.9747384847919%2C-75.13854653433407&amp;z=12)**     

**Click the links below to scroll through them** 


[SEPTA](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/SEPTA/) – 332 Photos
[Philadelphia](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/philadelphia/) – 727 Photos 
[Pennsylvania](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/pennsylvania/) – 924 Photos
[New Jersey](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/New%20Jersey/) -  2,344 Photos 
[PATCO High Speed Line](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/patco%20high%20speed%20line/) – 19 Photos
[RiverLINE](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/RiverLINE/) – 61 Photos
[Atlantic City Line](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/keyword/Atlantic%20City%20line/) – 13 Photos

**Financing the system and the expansions** 

Given the looming funding crisis about to happen to SEPTA in 2023 I would implement a Congestion pricing zone from Washington Ave to Girard charging up 10$ during rush hour and 5$ off peak.    Local Deliveries would be exempt which should reduce the burden on local businesses.     I would also lease air rights above the Powelton , Overbrook ,and any Depressed section of Septa trackage for high density mixed use Redevelopment which how a few systems in Asia fund themselves.    I would create a mini underground shopping space in the super concourse at Walnut–Locust station similar to the [Turnstyle hipster mall](https://www.flickr.com/photos/mtaphotos/albums/72157665381457564) at the 59th Street-Columbus Circle station in Midtown Manhattan.

**Reducing Costs , Adding Service , New Signals , Misc** 

To reduce the costs while expanding the system I would Fully automate the Patco High Speed Line , Norristown High Speed Line , Broad Street Subway and Market-Frankford EL which would allow for the doubling of service off peak , weekends and holidays without increasing operational costs.      [Platform Screen doors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MyvXNPJWhLE) would be installed at every station to prevent debris and people from falling onto the tracks and causing delays.     Train service would run every 2 mins on the MFL , Every 5mins for a Broad Street Local and every 10mins for an Express and Norristown HSL service.    

To Reduce the overcrowding on the MFL I would purchase [Open Gangway](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UTFrtD9HcRk) train sets which are [standard on Metro Systems outside the US](https://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2015/04/06/when-american-transit-agencies-ignore-the-worlds-move-to-open-gangways/) and are the cheapest way to increase capacity in the short term without adding more service.    Some of the Newer Open Gangway trains have [passenger load sensors](https://youtu.be/Sj5Mx950JRM?t=11m6s) that relay the information to monitors on the station platforms.     Each Station would have countdown clocks and Delay information on overhead monitors along with Climate controlled stations along the MFL at all Center City Stations which is one of the benefits of having Platform screen doors.    

New Super Trolleys would operate on the Subway-Surface division similar to these used in [Toronto](https://flic.kr/p/KdJa2R) with extra articulating sections to deal with the tight tunnel curves.     Restored routes such as the 23, 45 ,50 ,56 , or the in service Route 15 would use new low floor Streetcars such as these used in [Milwaukee](https://flic.kr/p/2bfdFii) , [Seattle](https://flic.kr/p/RZfYtL) , or [DC](https://flic.kr/p/WbeiBG) better suited high usage routes with more street congestion. 

I would Switch out the regular turnstiles for [chest high swing doors](https://nexis4jersey.smugmug.com/Infrastructure/Small-Town-Train-Stations/i-DVHLcxs/A) for the Regional Rail at University City , 30th Street Station , Suburban Station , Market East Station and Temple University.    Along with installing high level platforms at every Suburban Station which would for high capacity train sets to be purchased and lower dwell times at each stations.

To combat Fare evasion I propose installing [platform screen doors](https://flic.kr/p/PqEpyF) and chest high swing door fare gates along the RiverLINE and all of the proposed LRT lines.    This method is common place on newer systems in Latin America and Asia. 

**City of Philadelphia** 

**Subway Expansions** 

-Roosevelt Boulevard Subway : 13 miles – 11 Stations , Connection to MFL Extension at Bustleton &amp; Roosevelt 

-Germantown Subway : 2 miles – 4 Stations , Connections to Suburban Rail at Wayne JCT and Route 23 Trolley 

-Northwest &amp; South Subway Extension : 14 miles – 24 Stations , Connections to Suburban Rail and PATCO at Manayunk , Suburban Rail at Wissahickon , Cross City Trolley at York Street - Strawberry Mansion , Route 15 Trolley at Ridge &amp; Girard Ave , Broad Street Subway at Fairmount Avenue , PATCO , MFL at 8th &amp; Market , Broad Street Subway at Broad &amp; Washington , South Philly LRT at Grays Ferry , Route 11 &amp; 36 Trolly at South 49th street , Route 36 Trolley and Suburban Rail at Eastwick Transportation Center , and Amtrak High Speed Rail , Broad Street Subway and Suburban Rail at Philadelphia Airport

-PATCO West Extension : 7 miles – 13 Stations , Connections to MFL at 34th Street - University JCT , Route 15 Trolley at Girard Avenue, Route 10 Trolley and Suburban Services at 52nd Street , City Ave LRT at Bala , Northwest Subway at Roxborough and Suburban / Northwest Subway at Manayunk

-Airport BSL Extension : 5 miles – 3 Stations , Connections to Naval Yard Trolley at Naval Yard and Amtrak High Speed Rail , Broad Street Subway and Suburban Rail at Philadelphia Airport

**Service Patterns** 


-Broad Street Local – Fern Rock to PHL Airport

-Broad Street Express – Fern Rock to Walnut–Locust 

-Germantown Branch - Chelten Ave to Local to PHL Airport

-Germantown Branch – Chelten Ave to PHL Airport via Broad Street Express / Local South Philly

-Roosevelt Boulevard Subway - Turnpike Park &amp; Ride Local to Hunting Park , Express to Walnut-Locust 

-Northwest/South Subway – Manayunk – PHL Airport 

**Trolley / Streetcar / Light Rail Restorations and Expansions**

-Route 15 Extension to Frankford Terminal 

-Route 23 Trolley Restoration

-Route 60 Trolley Restoration 

-Route 56 Trolley Restoration 

-Route 45 Trolley Restorations

-North Philly CrossCity Trolley (Fishtown to Wynnefield Heights via the Strawberry-Mansion Bridge)

-City Avenue Light Rail (69th Street Terminal to Wissahickon Transportation Center)

-City Branch Light Rail Tunnel , allowing for express Route 15 Trolleys and Waterfront Trolley service from West Philly

-East Trolley (Fishtown / Old City to Oregon Ave)

-Passyunk Trolley (Elmwood to Whitman)
South Philly LRT to Center City Via the Subway-Surface Tunnel and the lightly used Conrail viaduct in South Philly connecting to the Glassboro/Millville Line via a Tunnel under the Delaware



**Historic Trolley , using restored streetcars similar to [Muni Routes E](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_Embarcadero)[&amp;F in San Francisco](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/F_Market_%26_Wharves)** 

Historic Trolley Route Route G : Chestnut Hill to Wayne Junction Station
Historic Trolley Route Route C : Girard Ave to Oregon Ave

**Philly Suburbs** 

**Light Rail Expansions**

-Restoration of Trolley Route 103 to Ardmore from 69th Street Terminal 
-Restoration of Trolley Route 104 to Newtown Square from 69th street Terminal
-Norristown High Speed Line to KOP 

**South Jersey**

**Subway expansion**

-Maple Shade PATCO Extension : 6 miles – 8 stations , Connections to Suburban Rail service at Maple Shade , Suburban Rail Service at Merchantville 

**Light Rail / Interurban Expansion , using low floor DMUs similar to [these](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5i-pb-AsmNw)**

-West Trenton RiverLine Extension : 5 miles – 7 Stations , Connections to Suburban Rail Service , Amtrak at Trenton Transit Center and Suburban Rail Service at West Trenton 

-Penns Grove LRT : 20 miles – 5 Stations , Connections to South Philly LRT and Glassboro/Vineland Line at Woodbury 

-South Philly LRT , continues along the Glassboro/Vineland Line to Glassboro in Battery or Hydrogen Mode on the NJ side.

Glassboro/Vineland Line : 57 miles – 17 Stations , Connections to Suburban Rail Service at  Vineland Transportation Center , South Philly LRT at Glassboro , Penns Grove LRT at Woodbury 



 	When the Orange line transitioned from an overhead steel structure like you find in parts of New York and Chicago, the neighborhoods lobbied strongly for a streetcar system believing that a dedicated rail line was best for their community and demonstrate a commitment to serve the neighborhoods.  After much haggling, that did not happen since there were no state funds or federal funds to build such a system.  In fact streetcars stopped serving downtown to Nubian in the mid-1950s.

The compromise was the Silver Line "bus rapid transit" or BRT.  Part of the plan was to have a connected system with part of it on the surface in dedicated bus lanes, which does exist in some areas, and part to eventually go into a subway tube.  Unfortunately, the engineering challenges proved overwhelming and too expensive to make happen.

The original Silver Line was then in 2 parts; a surface line from Dudley/Nubian to downtown, and a second disconnected segment originating at South Station going to various locations such as Logan airport, South Boston, and parts of the seaport district.  Several plans were floated to connect the Nubian branch to the one at South Station but all were almost impossible to create, and the state was and is still paying down the cost of the BIG DIG that depressed RT 93 underground through the city.

Worth noting that the South Station segment of the Silver line utilizes an old trolley )streetcar) tunnel at South Station just below the surface, so the build out of that part was expensive but doable.

The newer Chelsea section of the Silver Line actually follows a closed freight rail spur that had been decommissioned decades back and was just overgrown land.  It's also rather narrow in a couple of places requiring BRT buses to take turns using a small area.  It's controlled by a traffic signal system.

So while it has been intended to be a unified system, the cost as well as engineering challenges in a colonial era city proved to be too much.

So the Silver line has somewhat become a name of the overall BRT type transport system.  There are plans on the table to expand the Silver line into other parts of metro-Boston but that is still years off and lots has to happen before the first shovel throws any dirt.
 	Just thinking about E/W cycling routes to get to the lake is so depressing. 

Fullerton is a high-speed 4-way interchange at the highway, Diversey has the 6-way 4 lane intersection with Elston and Western, then immediately again over the bridge with Clybourn and Damen. 

Belmont is a shitshow when you get to lakeview, as are Addison and Irving Park with Wrigley traffic and all have high-speed traffic with no protected bike lanes.

Armitage, the 606 and Cortland coalesce into one crossing, which in my experience is the best of a cluster of bad options.

I think isn't until you get south to Division (!!!!) where there's continuous infrastructure spanning from Western to the LFT.
 	It’s not that cars themselves are bad, but cars in cities are bad. Wide roads and lots of parking lots create depressing, unwalkable environments. Cars create noise and pollution. Boston should be designed for pedestrians first. The city became so much more desirable after the big dig because the spaces were reclaimed for residents instead of commuters
 	New York is the best example, zoning for new business and residential development doesn’t require parking or car access at a volume defined by the scale of the project.  Any neighborhood over half a mile from a train line has been economically depressed for decades even as the city became overwhelmingly gentrified.  The city is designed to be fed by public transit, but that includes taxis, that area of overlap between public transit and cars.
 	That kind of depends on the line and system. 

The LARy for the most part was fueled by property development. From the earliest lines in the 1870's, new streetcar lines were built to develop land tracts outside of the CBD as that grew and moved further south from the Plaza to 7th St. 

The PE is much more complicated. Many of the lines were built new to compete with the steam locals of the Southern Pacific RR, Santa Fe RR, and Union Pacific RR (at the time the Los Angeles Terminal Railway); others were converted steam dummy railways which were initially constructed to either compete with the steam roads via transfer deals struck with the street railways of LA, or as a way to connect the towns and communities passed up by the major railways. Many of the local lines in Long Beach, Los Angeles, and Pasadena were in many ways property development tools, but were also ways to pacify city councils who would get agitated with the PE's over a lack of quality local transit outside of the big Interurban routes. The few lines which were expressly property development tools, such as the Ave 64 local or the San Dimas Local, were fairly short lived lines; gone by the great depression or as the financial slump continued into the 30's.
 	Vacant Old Town building will become boutique hotel / hostel; upper floors, which have been sealed off for 70 years, are a trove of depression-era artifacts
 	As stations follow a certain design in relation to the era they were built or rehabbed my least favorite by far are the highway median stations on the Forest Park/Congress branch of blue line. The first of it's type for median rapid transit from 1958 with all the faults. Excessively long depressing corridors to link platforms to street overpasses and undersized station houses with little original character remaining. A few of them have had their auxiliary exits shuttered over the years, or closed all together furthering the blow to an already under invested area that the line serves. There's actually a very unique station house on this branch at Cicero, towards the Lavergne st side that serves only a pedestrian bridge over the highway. It's the only one of it's type in the system. But it been closed since the 70s.  I'm glad this line is up for rehab next. It's in sad shape.

My favorite are the last remaining 1895 built Metropolitan West Side Elevated stations on the O'Hare branch of the blue. California and Damen.

[Lake street transfer](http://www.chicago-l.org/stations/lake_st_transfer.html) would have been bad ass though. Our only dual level station.
 	Japan and Italy both have extensive rural areas for their size and huge dense urban centers. Detroit was a sprawling city until it became economically depressed.
 	Most of the early “subway” system was built above ground.  The elevated lines still exist in northern Manhattan, as well as throughout the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn.  Primarily in Manhattan, the early elevated lines were later replaced by underground rail system, finishing up in the 1950s.  Major subway arteries, such as those running under the Grand Concourse in The Bronx, or Queens Boulevard (in Queens) were done by ripping open streets, but often they were still dirt roads; and it was done during the Depression, when the impact was much less (and the jobs were welcomed.)

You can see photos of the elevated &amp; subway construction (and many other aspects of changing NYC over 140 years or so) at “Al Ponte’s Time Machine - New York”
 	Edgewater Beach

Pro: Hollywood Beach, Lincoln Park/the lakefront trail, good commuter options including the Red Line and express buses, nice people, diverse mix of workers and gentry, the north end of Broadway has a lot of nice neighborhood businesses covering most of my needs, events at Broadway Armory, it's in the middle of the Far North Side which for my money is collectively the best part of the city

Con: It's kinda hard to get anywhere besides the lakefront neighborhoods between Evanston and downtown, Sheridan Road is loud and the lights are too long when you need to cross, there's hardly any businesses on Sheridan Road, the south end of Broadway is kind of depressing (I think they're rebuilding yet another damned strip mill right next to the Berwyn Red Line)

Both? Andersonville has a lot more going on but it's within walking distance
 	It's still green space at the junction of two of our most recognizable city waterways.

Why would we want the junction of Barton Creek and Town Lake turned into a 2000 ton slab of asphalt and concrete?

Stadiums have a shelf life of around twenty years, if that. After that, they turn into the Highland Mall, a depressing blight on our urban landscape.
 	How about supporting a local shop? Also, this post is depressing.

* Charmers (1500 West Jarvis Avenue) off the Jarvis stop. 
* Common Cup (1501 West Morse) off the Morse stop.
* Metropolis Coffee (1039 West Granville Avenue) off the Granville stop.
* Chicago Coffee (5256 N Broadway St) off the Berwyn stop.
* Coronas Coffee Shop (909 W Irving Park Rd) off the Sheridan stop.
* Kickstand (824 West Belmont Avenue) east of the Belmont stop.
* Eva's Cafe (1447 N Sedgwick) just south of the Sedgwick stop, I know that's not red line but there's not many independent shops over there.

From here south along the red the further you get into the city it's just Starbucks and Dunkin around stations.
 	Counting the #349(ran by Pace) South Western bus south of 79th Street, it's actually 3 routes that run on Western believe it or not! And it even runs onto Dixie Highway south of Blue Island, IL, till it gets to Harvey, IL. Which I will say is useful, if you are transferring between the #349 bus and Metra Electric. Also other heavily used Pace south suburban buses use the Harvey bus terminal, such as #364(159th Street). For sure Harvey, IL is depressing as heck, but that bus terminal is useful for sure if you are riding transit. I don't know if I'd want to use that bus terminal after dark, though. But in the daytime when transferring between Metra Electric and #349, I felt safe waiting there for a bus myself.

There also used to be a #49A CTA bus, but the CTA eliminated that route years ago due to low ridership. And since most riders rode on the #349 South Western Pace bus, instead.
 	This does sound plausible and I imagine that somebody proposed something like at least once.  I believe that the original Market Street Subway was forced underground exactly because the city councils were loath to surround their new civic center with an elevated railway. (The original subway was at first routed around the foundations of City Hall, using the tunnel still used by the subway-surface trolley routes, until it was given a direct routing during the Great Depression) There was also a proposal, albeit probably not a very serious one, for the Frankford Elevated to travel through Center City via an elevated line over Arch and Sansom Streets that would have connected to an elevated to Darby, in case the envision connection to the Market Street Subway was impossible due to legal problems or the intractability of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company.

Some plans for the Broad Street Subway also shifted the northbound express tracks under the southbound local tracks to leave space in the western side of Broad Street for a subway that the Pennsylvania Railroad considered to connect Broad Street Station to the connecting railroad via Broad Street and Ridge Avenue to make the cumbersome stub-end terminal through station.  The railroad ultimately preferred to simply move operations to a new through-station at 30th Street. 
 Topic 11: 
 	 I'm Sorry You are having a rough time. Hopefully it's only temporary.

I find that a good way to make friends is to get outside and do/ find activities you like to do. seems like rec-league sports are starting up again. are there sports you like to do? soccer, skateboarding, roller skating, surfing?

outdoor hobbies like bike riding or hiking? 

or indoor hobbies? dancing, cooking? maybe take a class somewhere? yoga or something like that?

maybe some sort of church or meditation group or book club?

being alone/ lonely, really sucks and can get depressing. try to fight off the blahs with getting outside, getting some sunshine, try new things. get some exercise, eat healthy. don't stay indoors or day, or sleep during the day, or start drinking.

Just a little bit of exercise every day helps. there are a ton of free videos on youtube you can exercise along with...

Find restaurants you want to try, hikes you want to go on, check out museums, coffee shops you haven't been to before, farmers markets. art exhibits.

maybe volunteer work? or a part time job someplace fun?

Hope this Helps!!!
 	I made a lot of friends going to weekly bar trivia and open mics. I’m not a performer, but performers love an audience. Also, I’m not an extrovert at all. I think mostly it’s about showing up somewhere every week. Oh, and the gym! Go to the same spin class or yoga class every week and you’ll meet people.

There are groups for everything here— meetups for depression, goth nights, photography groups, startups networking, improv and storytelling classes, writers groups—I’m sure you can find something.

Volunteering to do something you love is another way.
 	I recommend taking a dance class! It gets you doing something, but in a very structured way. You do have to get yourself to the studio or venue, but once you are there, you just follow the instructions. 

If you take a solo dance class like hip hop or something, then you'll get exercise, always a plus. Or if you take a partner dance class like swing or salsa, you'll get social activity, but in a no-pressure environment--some people are there for the social part and some are there really just to learn the dance. 

There are also a lot of dance communities in Portland, so getting involved in dance can actually lead into a social life that isn't about dating. I go through bouts of depression and dance is always there--you can just show up and take from it what you will.

Best wishes!
 	Best Judo Club?  I’m an adult with no judo or martial arts experience. I’m crawling out of a depression and looking to try new things, meet new people, and get active. Are there any adult beginner friendly clubs/dojo’s anyone can recommend?
 	The best way I have found to make friends, even during the pandemic, is to get involved with groups that are formed around a common interest. For instance, I am a designer + a woodworker, so I have joined some local, online groups that are related to these topics, and have made friends through them. A lot of times, I am the one to reach out to invite someone to coffee etc first, then we just see how things go. It's a little like dating, some friendships won't "take" and others will.

Forming adult friendships requires lots of patience as well as being ok with initiating things (while also taking the hint if the other person is not interested!) Many people have pretty full lives by the time they are in their late 20's and onward, so it can sometimes take a while for people to incorporate new friends into their lives.

Another thought is to try new things that you are interested in. I made a lot of friends when I got into climbing, for instance. Since you are feeling depressed, which I can relate to, you could try to focus on finding new activities that you A) enjoy B) get you out of the apt and C) will get you interacting with possible new friends.

Good luck!
 	Fun/creative remote work places? Ive been working remotely for a while and want to vary things up in my daily routine. My local libraries are either depressing or chaotic, and I love my local coffee shops but I’d like to vary it up sometimes and maybe even meet people where I go. Working remotely is great, but quite isolating, especially as someone who’s naturally a hermit already.

So fellow remote workers of LA, what’s a unique place I can remote work in the west side that is fun yet focused and allows me to meet people (preferably other creatives or nerds)? I’m looking for something outside the box, but if your local coffee shop is especially eccentric and sociable, let me know!
 	Fun/creative remote work places? Ive been working remotely for a while and want to vary things up in my daily routine. My local libraries are either depressing or chaotic, and I love my local coffee shops but I’d like to vary it up sometimes and maybe even meet people where I go. Working remotely is great, but quite isolating, especially as someone who’s naturally a hermit already.

So fellow remote workers of LA, what’s a unique place I can remote work in the west side that is fun yet focused and allows me to meet people (preferably other creatives or nerds)? I’m looking for something outside the box, but if your local coffee shop is especially eccentric and sociable, let me know!
 	Please start going to things you are into through meetups. 

La can be extra lonely if you are new and don't know people there and if you already struggling with depression.

You can also go outside the comfort zone and just start meeting new random people and it will definitely shift from loneliness. 

I struggled with loneliness before and it's no picnic but once you start actively working at it to chip yourself out you can at least feel it less. DM me for places to check out and keep your chin up.
 	It sounds like you have little to no time, if poss I'd work on cutting hours back to 10 a day then see how you go, could give you more energy to find a hobby group (Meetup) or sports club (Underdog), something casual you can go to once a week. Bear in mind might not be the first club you try.

I'd also try to focus on finding friends first, plus you're more likely to meet someone to date when a) you're happier and more secure, b) maybe they'll introduce you to someone. The apps can be depressing, don't lose hope on meeting someone organically. 

If you like bars I find going to the same local spot once a week also helps build a sense of community, you're more likely to start chatting to the same people over time, even if it is just the bartender!  The same could apply to coffee shops, I just find bars people are obvs more chatty
 	Honestly? Go to a museum. I pick a theme…a color, shape, idea and try to find it in as many works as I can until I’m tired. I’m afraid to be alone when I am depressed and being around people, even if strangers, helps me feel like I am course correcting. Afterward I take myself out for a meal…ramen, dumplings, a burger—my go to comfort food. And then I walk and then do a workout that requires all of my focus, like a fast paced yoga class or a run. All of these things don’t work every single time, but it works a lot of the time.

Brighter days are ahead for you 🤗
 	I suggest an exercise-related activity. Dragon boat, rock climbing, cross fit, cycling club, dance (salsa for example). The exercise will help with the depression part. Not every time will yield conversations/friendships but you need to at least put yourself in situations where it might happen. I’ve also met friends from eating solo at cafes and at the bar in restaurants.
 	LA isn't the best place to make new friends. It takes a while. Involve yourself in activities - take a class, go to events, etc.

Meetup.com groups can be depressing, but it might expose you to more people.
 	Try a trivia night or maybe a concert or comedy show. I used to get depressed attending things alone but these offer a bit of relief, you can strike up convo with someone or just absorb the vibes. 
Other ideas, book club bar, west side highway exercise, French specific restaurants and culture on the UES like the Albertine library or Angelina’s. 
There’s also art cafes to do some art in groups but you’ll get through this!
Also sign up for a group tour :) 
You’ve got this! I also get overwhelmed and forget what’s in my arsenal. If you’re not ready to talk to others try a sauna or something. 
Best
 	Getting a dog has helped a lot with seasonal depression. If you work from home or have someone else in the home that can walk the dog at lunchtime (or you can afford a dog walker) it could be a good option. They are good company, but also they "force" you to go outside early in the morning, go on walks after work and generally stay active. 

Also, a couple of people mentioned dancing - once you learn a little bit and can go social dancing, it's the ideal winter activity! You decide how much of it do you want it to be exercising vs socializing, while listening to music you enjoy.  Sometimes there even are beginner lessons at the start of an evening of social dancing so you can learn on the spot.
 	The only thing I do on a weekly basis is on Thursday nights I play guitar at a local open mic.  There's a bunch of them around the city, and a lot of the musicians are pretty talented so even if you don't play it could be a good thing to go out with friends and enjoy. 

I know people that do trivia nights at bars a lot too.   

Though if you're trying to avoid drinking since it's bad for you when you're depressed, these may not be the best suggestions... 
 Topic 12: 
 	 I grew up in Seattle and have lived in SF for three years. 

I actually think SF is more grey. 

Seattle is definitely *wetter*. The gloom/grey/depressing weather in Seattle is far more concentrated and brutal--you'll have two months of solid rain/sleet/wind and 40 degree weather between February and April. October-May is a crapshoot. The winter days are also shorter up there. 

However, the summer in Seattle is far superior to SF (assuming that you prefer sun and warmth). June through September is reliably beautiful weather. Not too hot but still warm. Long sunny days. Green and blue all over. No bugs. 

It also seems like you have more random sunny days during the Seattle winter, though they tend to be very cold (30s to low 40s in the city, low/mid 30s in the suburbs and foothills). 

Summer in SF is generally awful for people who like summer. You get a handful of nice warm days, and then maybe a few weeks in Sept/Oct. Maybe three years isn't enough to say this authoritatively, but that's been my experience. 

Keep in mind, I'm taking about the city of SF particularly. The summer weather in the rest of the Bay Area is mostly great. 

I get similar weather-related depression in SF as I do in Seattle, except SF is year round mostly, while Seattle I get a consistent 3 month break in summer.
 	How many days in the rainy months does it actually rain vs just overcast grey sky days? I notice that I enjoy rainy days even though they come with the grey skies, but I dislike days with only grey skies without rain, they feel depressing to me. How many days in the rainy months does it actually rain vs just grey skies?
 	As you move closer to the poles, the sun sets earlier in the winter than it does in the summer. People who live near the equator generally have days that are the same length all year, but people closer to the poles have much more light in summer.

For example, in a place near the equator like [Chennai](https://www.timeanddate.com/sun/india/chennai) the sunrise and sunset times only vary by an hour throughout the year. In [Boston](https://www.timeanddate.com/sun/usa/boston) the sunrise and sunset times can vary by as much as three hours (plus one hour for Daylight Savings Time).

This means in mid-December night in Boston can start around 5pm and be 15 hours long. All that darkness is depressing.

It could be worse though. In [London](https://www.timeanddate.com/sun/uk/london) in December the sun sets before 4pm.
 	I lived in KC, Columbia, and St Louis. The weather in those cities is a lot more mild than Chicago and I would imagine SW MO would be even more mild. 

True winter weather in Missouri doesn't really start until late December and it's over by April. But in Chicago winter weather can start as early as late October and last until May. It's not frigid cold every day, but I would expect below freezing temperatures almost every day from January until early March. The length is the worst part of winter. And the grey gloomy skies can be depressing.

The trade off is that summers here are mild compared to Missouri. It's rare to have days in Chicago above 92 degrees, but was pretty common in MO. My only complaint with the summers here is that sometimes it doesn't even feel like summer. It's rainy, 75 degrees, and sometimes a little chilly in the shade downtown.

We don't really have 4 seasons in Chicago. We don't get fall here, spring is just a lighter winter, and summer feels more like spring in Missouri. The weather is the worst part of living in Chicago, IMO.
 	Agreed. Lived in MN and Chicago most of my life before moving here. 

What ppl don't realize is that Midwestern winters may be cold and snowy, but you get a lot more sunlight throughout the day due to the colder temperatures. It may be too cold to do much outdoors, but at least you see the blue sky and sun, and get sunlight reflecting off of the white snow.

Months upon months of full cloud coverage, in addition to the longer periods of darkness, can hit you much harder than being cooped up indoors due to the cold... I didn't expect that moving here, I thought the milder, if wet and rainy weather, would be an improvement for my seasonal depression. It was not.
 	Seattle grays usually start in Sept or Oct and end in April or May.

You do get years like last year where they start in Nov or end in June/July though.

Last year we had nothing but gray skies and rain until late June / early July, on the other hand summer lasted until late Oct.


You can usually count on a good 4-5 months of summer, the rest of the year can be very bleh and depressing though.
 	We have weird but more steady weather than the rest of the country. Summer is typically gorgeous, 70-90 degrees, and lots of sun, and dry. Autumns are cool, and the transition to winter brings rain and potent windstorms, same with the transition from winter to spring. We had a very mild and dry winter this year, so we might be looking at a cooler and wetter than normal summer. We typically don't get much snow, and last year we only had one day with an inch downtown, but we do sometimes get heavy snow/ice storms once every few years.

Seasonal depression is all dependent on how much you enjoy the gloom. I've been living with it my entire life so I'm not quite sure what to make of it.
 	Same. I moved from Seattle to Chicago. Chicago is beautiful when the leaves are on the trees but it gets real ugly here in the winter compared to the year-round beautiful greenery of Seattle. That said, I don’t feel that winter depression in Chicago that I did in Seattle and it’s because Chicago still gets sun. My winter mood is way better here.
 	The weather is erratic. It can be beautiful in January and crap in June (Junuary), May Gray, June Gloom. This past winter was very mild and I recall kind of nice (no snow in 2 years - abnormal) and this summer was almost entirely overcast.

October and November are pretty ugly. Wet, clammy cold that goes to your bones - and through your bones. Spring is like that, too.

I like it, but you can't predict how any one month will be (generally speaking). And late November we get the Arctic blasts. 

The weather can get depressing and you own 9 jackets for every kind of weather. Cold wet, cold not so wet, cold dry, warm with cold and wet...
 	Seattle weather is lovely, you just think it’s bad because you’re from CA I moved here from the midwest, bracing myself for rain and seasonal depression. Instead, I got coworkers complaining about the rain and cold even on 50° days of full sun in December. In my experience, the midwest also has 2-3 week stretches of no sun in the winter, only there it’s also 7° with a bitter windchill and 6 inches of snow and ice on the ground.

My take: Seattle winters are luxurious compared to other northern states. If you want CA weather, move back to CA. Otherwise, learn to enjoy what you have.
 	I tend to agree with about appreciating the change in seasons and that other areas are worse, but the 3 main factors that I hate about the weather here are:

1. Wind - Boston is actually one of the windiest cities and I can deal with cold and snow in the winter, but it's the wind that always gets me
2. Humidity - no argument that Florida/down south can be worse, but the heat+humidity is absolutely miserable. Give me 105 degree heat over 95+humidity every day.
3. "Gray season" - Nov - March is cold, wet, and dark for the most part. Especially this time of year, it's extra depressing how early sunset happens - especially with how far east we are (living in Maine was even worse)

Besides that, I love our spring time, summer days, early fall, and cold snowy winters.
 	lived in Chicago for one year, I had to get out because the weather was so depressing. 20 days out of every month was overcast and windy. 

* Winter(5 months): November to March: average high was below 30F BEFORE windchill. and its always blowing 10-15mph. 
* Spring(2 months): March - April: 55F but closer to 40 with the windchill
* Summer(2 months): June-July: 70-80F when there's no wind. 
* Fall(3 months): August - October: same as spring

 	Worth noting that Chicago winters are generally known for being cold and snowy. Seattle is relatively mild in that regard but it's dark. December and January in Chicago have more than twice as much sunshine as Seattle. It's hard to say how The Big Dark will affect you until you're here but it's definitely depressive.
 	If you are born and raised in LA it can be very difficult to adjust to the Nov-Feb period.  A lot of people like overcast misty days until there are 100 of them in a row.  Be ready that you or your SO may get pretty bad seasonal depression particularly late Jan - end of Feb.

March through October is fine and the summers are amazing.
 	Be prepared for at least 9 months of depressing gloom from October to July, grey skies and misty rain, temperatures regularly under 13C, and rare sightings of the sun. I'm from a mediterranean environment and I'm going absolutely crazy and can't wait to leave. Consider buying a sun lamp for proper solar radiation, and at least 2000iu Vitamin D daily. SAD Seasonal Affective Disorder is real here, your circadian cycles are about to get thrashed. It is very pretty here. 
 Topic 13: 
 	 wheelin' 23rd we saw nuthin' but thugs-
the girlies was too skinny from smokin' all them drugs-
cause the rock man got 'em and their butts just dropped-
the freaks looked depressed 'cause the Benz won't stop-
at 23rd and Union the driver broke left-
Kevin shouted Broadway it's time to get def-
 	wheelin' 23rd we saw nuthin' but thugs-

the girlies was too skinny from smokin' all them drugs-

cause the rock man got 'em and their butts just dropped-

the freaks looked depressed 'cause the Benz won't stop-

at 23rd and Union the driver broke left-

Kevin shouted Broadway it's time to get def-
 	Sir Mix-a-Lot [has a good one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBPpy_SVV_0):    
&gt; Wheeling 23rd we saw nothing but thugs    
The girlies was too skinny from smoking all them drugs    
Cause the rock man got em and their butts just drop    
The freaks look depressed because the Benz won't stop    
At 23rd and Union the driver broke left
 	”wheelin' 23rd we saw nuthin' but thugs-
the girlies was too skinny from smokin' all them drugs-
cause the rock man got 'em and their butts just dropped-
the freaks looked depressed 'cause the Benz won't stop-
at 23rd and Union the driver broke left-
Kevin shouted Broadway it's time to get def-“

31 years and it hasn’t changed much.
 	They took our concrete incinerator (a holdover from the Depression) when I asked them. Put a chain on it and dragged it down the alley until it broke up into managable size pieces.  I remember that a garbage truck accidentally hit it once, but caused no damage - was a pain to move it back onto its slab.
 	No the time she got her foot caught in the blankets fell out of bed and the instant she hit the floor she barfed all over the carpet. It was not elegant it was depressing and a wake up call.
 	Usually nothing, but most alerts are him waiting by the door for me to come home :( or wandering / pacing about.

He's 15, but on ocasion he will flip his shit and run around the house like a kitten (dropcam has audio and I have it running on my headphones at work). Back and forth down the hallway. I will hear a loud bang and rewind the footage to see him running about. He will never know.

I've seen him toss up a hairball once or twice. Caught him shitting by the front door when he is mad I'm working late.

It's depressing if I'm out of town though. Lots of motion alerts and him pacing by the front door much more than usual.
 	saw depressing scene unfold on #72 bus a few days back and i still can not shake it. at the ashland stop an apparent homelss man jumps in the back door and there is some young guy in pursuit of him. the young guy is screaming bloody murder and it was about the old guy stealing his mail. the old man kept saying 'you got your mail, you got your mail". anyway, the look of real fear and panic on that mans face still gets to me. i wish i had done something, but i dont know what i could have done. maybe calm down the young guy. it was just mail afterall. maybe he was expecting somethign important in the mail, i dunno. if someone stole my mail i wouldn't have been so livid. plus i am sure the old guy was scared enough to not target the kid again anyway.  the bus driver kicked the old guy off and the young guy was on the phone with the police and following behind the old guy as we pulled away. i hope it didnt end too bad. just wanted to get that out.
 	Turn off your TV.


Believe me, you don't want to see this stuff.  It's just scary and depressing.


You can't leave now, so hunker down.  If you hear a freight train, go to the most inside-room you can, or your bath tub, and pull some mattresses on top of you if you can.


If you go into your attic, bring tools to be able to break through the roof if the water comes into the attic.  


Some are suggesting getting a ladder and going onto your roof, but I wouldn't do that unless you hear a nearby rescue helicopter.


If you're lucky enough to see rescue boats on your street, let the children and elderly get taken first, but don't pass up an empty seat if there's one.


Keep your phones charged up and put some water in some empty containers.


We'll get through this.
 	>Wheelin' 23rd we saw nothin' but thugs  
>The girlies was too skinny from smokin' all them drugs  
>'Cause the rock man got 'em and their butts just dropped  
>The freaks looked depressed because our Benz won't stop  
>At 23rd and Union the driver broke left  
>Kevin shouted, Broadway it's time to get def  

*Posse on Broadway* -1988
 	I had an interesting weekend to say the least. The girl who I ruined things with drunk called me on Friday because she was in the area and asked me to come pick her up. I felt bad so I did and instead of taking her home she asks to come back to my place. Then ensues 5 hours of nightmare. She comes in drunk and wants to hook up and I keep saying no because shes going to end up regretting it in the am, but won't take no for an answer. The deed is done and she immediately regrets it and asks me to take her home. As I'm getting dressed to take her home I notice my cellphone is missing. When I mention this to her she bolts out the door and says she mysteriously found a ride home. This then entails me to try and get her to give me the phone back which she denies she has. I have to ask my doorman to use his phone to try and track my phone and notice it is now turned off. I decide to try and brick the phone and go back upstairs pissed that she stole it. She shows back up about 15 minutes later saying she magically had it in her bag. She proceeds to yell and curse at me for the next few hours about how horrible a person I am for the things I said to her. I tell her to sleep it off on the bed and I'll crash on the couch. Ten minutes later shes dragging me back to the bed to sleep with her. The next morning she wakes up early and demands I call her a ride home because I'm not "worthy" of giving her a ride. -_____-

Then went to our office party where I was the only person there without a date and the only person not drinking. Talk about depressing. I got back home and tried to go out solo to see Boyz Noize but felt really uncomfortable and went home. 

Sunday hit the gym and I actually went to see the girl who said I was not worthy cuz I had promised her a favor. I go to see her and she starts telling me to hurry up because she's going out on a date later -_-.

WTF...on the plus side I'm almost down 10lbs and I've lost 2 inches off my waist.
 	Ike's is 23rd and Union is classic CD as mentioned by Sir Mix-a-Lots [Posse on Broadway](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBPpy_SVV_0). 

&gt;Wheeling 23rd we saw nothing but thugs

&gt;The girlies was too skinny from smoking all them drugs

&gt;Cause the rock man got em and their butts just drop

&gt;The freaks look depressed because the Benz won't stop

&gt;At 23rd and Union the driver broke left

&gt;Kevin shouted Broadway it's time to get def
 	Same thing happened to me 2 years ago. I was waiting for the bus. Just minding my own business and out of nowhere I got clocked on the right side of my face. My glasses and headphones flew off…

It took me a few seconds to realize what just happened, I looked down and blood was just gushing everywhere. Almost a la Kill Bill…

Anyways, the guy was talking all this gibberish. I yelled at him and got in my boxing/fighting stance. That’s when he knew that I didn’t care how crazy he was and Poof he straightened up. He said he was sorry, but I didn’t care nor fell for it. I chased him down the street and he threw himself on the street. I kicked him in hips and just went back to the bus stop.

I felt defeated and no lie, I was very depressed after that happened. I was also scared of that area for a bit.. really messed me up
 	The last time I was there I saw a dude that was so wasted it was sad... he dropped his pants and stood there bare-assed, pissing everywhere, including on his pants between his legs. A LOT of piss. Cascading across the sidewalk even. It was rush hour and people were having to step over his stream. He tried to pull his piss soaked pants up after but was too drunk so he sat. Really depressing actually.
 	Ditto, I will say, I was keeping my patio door open (to help alleviate the depressing feelings of being inside an apartment 24/7) and finally my oncologist said, ok, try closing the patio door. If it doesn’t stop the cough I’ll order a CT scan for safe measure. Shut patio door, cough came to a complete halt for four days. Opened back up for one, cough came right back. 
 Topic 14: 
 	 As a peninsula resident, I'm curious--is there any way to realistically get into real estate investing in this market without $1M+ in liquid assets and be profitable?

I've been considering a home purchase, and as depressing as starter home costs are down here, I'm wondering if it might make more sense to purchase and rent it out and then keep renting elsewhere myself.
 	Lending is going to tighten up a bit.  Interest rates will stay low for a bit but start to go up.  Spring market got cut short and there is a ton of built up demand that is going to burst out once Realtor’s can show properties again.  That will last 6 months tops and then we are going to see a significant slowing of demand and likely a slight dip in prices but not a bottoming out. New construction is going to slow because they are facing a quintuple whammy of financing drying up for construction funding,  financing for buyers tightening up, less qualified buyers available, depressed sales prices, and the slashing of the tax abatement.  But the slowing of new construction will probably prop up the prices of existing homes a bit.  Rents will go up as they do in any down market since there will be more demand from those who normally would have purchased a home.
 	It’s still depressing to buy. 

Take a look on Zillow sometime, find an apartment you like, and check out the monthly property taxes and fees. Then plug in your down payment, and pull up the mortgage amortization table. Maybe assume you will own the apartment for 5 years—take the average of the interest portion you pay on the loan (since that does not contribute to equity and is equivalent to paying rent) and add that to your monthly property taxes and building fees. It’ll probably still be close to $3000 a month or higher
 	Some people have always neglected to pay their property taxes. That is not a new issue. The tax sale is a system put in place to prevent properties from being delinquent for many years, either by pressuring current owners to pay their taxes, or deeding the property to those who will.

The issue is that there are now many properties that are worth less than the delinquent taxes owed. These are mostly dilapidated properties in economically depressed areas. The time and money necessary to acquire and sell the property is more than the potential profit, so the taxes of these properties are not purchased and they continue to acquire delinquent taxes, making it even less likely that the taxes will be purchased in subsequent tax sales. These taxes will never be paid.
 	small landlord and homeowners have to pay a mortgage to a bank. the mortgage is high, and property taxes dont help. with covid-19 economic depression, not a lot of people will be able to pay rent, and if they are a homeowner they wont be able to pay their mortgage. since a lot of people rent, that means small landlords wont be able to pay their mortgage. when you cant pay your mortgage, the banks foreclose, taking back ownership of the property. since the economy has slowed or been restricted, there won't be a lot of new aspiring homeowners. large real estate firms will buy the foreclosed properties at a discount from the bank.

if you are a socialist, i am going to assume that is a nightmare scenario, where private corporations have ownership of most housing in the US
 	Here's my ballpark on what various annual incomes will get you:

$15,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $15,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$30,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$45,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt

$60,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$75,000 - Congratulations - this is a sustainable income. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$100,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$120,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $120k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cheap areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $100k offered. You can also save quite a bit if you live in less hip areas. So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate.
 	Here's my ballpark on what various annual incomes will get you:

$10,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $10,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$20,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$30,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt

.$40,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$50,000 - Congratulations, this is the median family income in New York. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$70,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$100,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $100k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cheap areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $70k offered. You can also save quite a bit if you live in less hip areas. So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate.



 	Here's my ballpark on what various annual incomes will get you:

$10,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $10,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$20,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$30,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt

.$40,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$50,000 - Congratulations, this is the median family income in New York. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$70,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$100,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $100k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cool areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $70k offered. You can also save quite a bit.So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate.



 	$21 an hour is around $43,000. Here's my ballpark on what various annual incomes will get you:

$10,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $10,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$20,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$30,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt.

$40,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$50,000 - Congratulations, this is the median family income in New York. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$70,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$100,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $100k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cool areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $70k offered. You can also save quite a bit.So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate.
 	Yes and no. It certainly would be nice to sell now for close to $500k "profit," but the reality is I would be priced out of this market unless I wanted to turn around and put the profit into buying a new home while keeping the same mortgage payment I had before. 

People are only looking at the profit margin, but say I'd kept my house until now and sell it for $729k. In that time my taxes would have gone up from roughly $7k to roughly $9k-$10k with exemptions and the property tax increase limitation. I pay off my mortgage, pay closing costs, pay the brokerage fee, and have $450k cash at closing. The new house I buy is significantly smaller and slightly lower-priced at $700k because I had to outbid several other buyers. I put every penny from the sale into my new home. My new mortgage payment is $200/mo higher than my old mortgage payment, my tax basis is now $700k and I've lost the benefit of limited tax increases as a result, and I'm now paying $13k in taxes instead of $9-$10k with a higher tax basis.

If I'm an empty-nester about to retire, it would be entirely different. I no longer need a 3-4 bedroom home, can downsize to a 2-bedroom with no flex/loft area for half that, have my over-65 freeze coming up and can put $300k-$400k away or into my investment portfolio. 

As a parent of two elementary-age kids, it would be stupid to sell unless I was moving to a relatively comparable area with much lower housing prices. California suburbs to Austin, Texas, for example. Or, at the time, Austin to Dripping Springs (but now Dripping Springs is blowing up and outpacing Austin in some regards). At the time, it made sense because there was nowhere in Austin we could buy 5-10 acres with a comparable home on it inside Austin, so we put the money into the new place, increased our tax basis, and moved to a comparable school district because it was the difference between having neighbors 8 feet away and having neighbors 200 yards away. But my taxes are killing me now and I'm wondering if it would have been better to just stay where we were (aside from getting divorced).

So it's not that cut-and-dried. I feel for the people who don't have $100k magically saved up to buy a home, because they're likely only buying when the market busts (if they're still employed). My ex and I were lucky. When we bought, the market was the lowest it had been in 15 years. Our home was originally on the market for $400k when it was built 15 years earlier. We had no kids, had saved a ton of money because we worked all the time and didn't have time to spend it, and had the good fortune of a depressed housing market.
 	Start building out your career and you won't have any problems. Here's a level of comfortability for the amount of cash you need coming in at a minimum.  This can include your parent's cash and a part time job, or your own full time job. It all comes out the same. Remember the general rule for rent is that rentx40 has to be smaller than your annual income.

$10,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $10,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$20,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$30,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt.

$40,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$50,000 - Congratulations, this is the median family income in New York. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$70,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$100,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $100k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cool areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $70k offered. You can also save quite a bit.

So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate.
 	The FHA requires that a condo complex be 65% owner occupied. This is why you have to find out what the owner occupied vs tenant ratio is before buying in a complex. If most residents are tenants, it won't be a very well-cared for complex, and property values will be depressed. Many good well run HOAs will enforce this ratio, so it could be years before you could rent out the condo that you just bought.
 	Homeownership does have its cons, roofs every 30 years, minor maintenance here and there, depending on the yard, some work there also, some appliances will have to be replaced. 

The awesome aspect, if you have a house, it appreciates. Fixed 3% property rate increases, rent can just keep going up and up and up. Loan payment, fixed. Easily to budget for.

I can sell now after only owning for 3 years and make $150,000 after taxes and I did virtually nothing.

Or hold until retirement when it is fully paid off, sell it for a shitload depending on my patience with the market. Buy a much smaller home in a small town with a depressed economy outright. No loan payment, just property taxes. With our retirement and extra money, have fun and if we need help hire in home care assistant and save tons not going to a depressing retirement facility.

I'll have a $600,000 to $700,000 asset, which is kind of like money in the bank, to fall back on. A renter is not going to have that.

My mortgage is lower than rent most rent west of 82nd. I might not be as mobile but I am also more stable and rising prices can't push me out. I have a choice to be mobile or not, a renter might have that choice taken away from them.
 	I set up a spreadsheet to calculate how much faster I could pay off our house with extra payments and was looking forward to seeing how much of a difference that would make in our budget once it was paid off. I also account for a typical increase in property taxes each year. It was depressing to discover that after our house is paid off, there will be no end reward or extra money freed up until we sell.
 	Copying and pasting from my past answer. On m


$10,000 - You cannot survive in NYC on $10,000 without falling into depression very quickly.

$20,000 - If you're clever you can get a really cheap roommate situation and live on rice and beans and government medical, going into debt to stay afloat.

$30,000 - You can afford a small studio in queens with a 1 hr commute from Manhattan (if your parents will be your guarantor), or you can get a better roommate situation. You still will be living on the knife's edge - beware medical issues and know you will get into some debt

.$40,000 - You can now start breathing in a studio or one bedroom in queens or roomshare in a hipper/less commute area. You can afford to order out sometimes. Still no medical.

$50,000 - Congratulations, this is the median family income in New York. You won't be saving for the future with this but you can survive renting in Queens/non hip area of Brooklyn or roommating in hipper areas. You still can't get an apartment with less than a 30 minute commute, but that's okay.

$70,000 - You can now afford an apartment in Astoria or some cheap parts of upper manhattan for yourself. Good job! You can also order out all the time. Your job at this stage also probably gives medical. You made it and life is pretty easy if you don't spend all of your money drinking/being stupid.

$100,000+ - To some people in NYC, you are poor at $100k. But they are stupid. You can now afford, with some issues, to have your own small apartment in the cool areas of Manhattan and have all the other goods things $70k offered. You can also save quite a bit.So keep your eyes on your career - it will dictate how well you can live in NYC. If you want to keep up with the Joneses and like spending a lot on nightlife add $10-$20k to all the above estimate. 
 Topic 15: 
 	 Anyone experienced ECE dismissal from college of engineering due to course repetition? I seriously need help to reenter and I feel like my whole world is shattered right now. Did anyone have any experience with dismissal from ECE Cockrell school of engineering and placed under "undeclared major"

I am so nervous and depressed. I had to drop a course 3 times due to nonacademic reasons. I didn't do well last semester because I received 3 F's studying online this summer and I had so much going on with my family. My father is critically ill due to covid and my family is struggling financially more than ever because of this. Furthermore, the professor for that course was so vulgar towards me and I don't want to dwell into what happened between me and him in the last two weeks of the semester, but he is the reason why I couldn't finish my course with him. It's traumatizing to even deal with him anymore. He questioned my integrity and how I previously use "excuses" to drop a class because I'm incompetent.

The advisor said I can't appeal but I should consider another major.

I really want to go back and take the course again and I'm feeling more helpless than ever. Is there a way I can be readmitted into ECE ever again?
 	It took me 8 years to finish my BA! I too was a top member in my HS classes. Mostly Honors and AP courses. Then I hit college and my depression and anxiety, coupled with working all the time just screwed me up. I took semesters off, a year or two off here and there. I also changed my major about 5 times. Nothing seemed to interest me and everything sucked. Nobody expected me to finish! Even my momma gave up on me. I eventually found a niche that felt right to me. I then graduated with my first "big girl job", got fired from job months later (lol), and entered my MA program. Kicked complete ass in the MA program and graduated with a job. It's been 3 years now with the same job and I've never been happier! My life is infinitely better than it's ever been. I don't regret the rocky road at all because it's brought me to where I am now. 

Do what makes you happy. And don't think bumps in the road are going to be your downfall.
 	Low GPA, don't know what to do next, CS Major Hello, I'm in a really tough bind right now and I'm not even sure how to approach my situation. So I initially started my first semester during the Spring 2013 semester and I went through a major depressive episode and basically didn't go to classes. I took 5 courses, dropped one, and made straight F's on the other 4 (I wish I wasn't kidding), as I had a hard time integrating within the school. I regret making such poor choices, but I want to move on from them.

I took about 2 years off and met some people that helped me along the way in renewing confidence in myself. I was readmitted into the University during the 2016 Spring semester and took 4 classes, one being CS 312. I ended up mismanaging my time during the semester and dropped CS 312 (I had previously failed my first attempt due to not showing up). I got a D in 408C, a B- in another class, and a C for my last class.

 My GPA for the semester ended up being a 1.67 for the semester and a current cumulative GPA of 0.76. This is the second time I was dismissed and I'm not sure what route to take or even if I could appeal. I messed up completely. I'm lost and I could use guidance of any sort.
 	I was in a similar situation as you a few years ago. I got put on academic dismissal because of terrible grades influenced by depression (though I didn't admit it then) and stress. 
When I came back to UT, I switched majors and really focused on my studies above all else. Mainly because I had just taken a semester break from school and so I had felt revitalized and fresh upon returning. During my time off, I learned that I did in fact want to finish college and that it was attainable if I set my mind to it. 
I found that being academically dismissed for a semester gave me a wake up call for my future and helped me take some time off to relax, think about my future, and ponder over other things. 

I managed to graduate this semester and honestly, I have taking a (obligatory) semester break to thank for that
 	I'm pretty sure I failed another class. I'm a student struggling with some pretty severe depression. I had some pretty graphic stuff happen on campus to me my freshman year, I got put on academic probation on the uphill of COVID, and now I'm here in my 5th year just scraping by. I've got a 2.2 GPA, but I was able to land myself a nice on-campus internship this semester. I really thought I was on my way back up to doing well. But now, here I am, just having gotten a 44 on an exam that counts toward 75% of my grade. There's still the final left to take, but my grade is shot. I have a failing grade regardless of that exam grade. What do I even do?   
I already spoke with the professor about failing, to which they told me pretty straightforwardly that the reason I'm failing is my exam grades. I didn't push it then, and I don't want to push it now, but I feel like I have no other choice. Do I grovel for a second chance, or an incomplete, or just something, anything to let me get at least a D(-)? I know I can't be alone in this experience, and I'm just looking for some advice, or something to calm me down for a moment. I feel so helpless and sad. I'd talk more about the class, but I just don't want there to be a chance I get recognized at all.. sorry.
 	Hi there, I graduated from UT in ‘22 in 4 years (technically 3.5) after getting academic probation into academic dismissal after my freshman year. That semester that I took off, I ended up just asking that time for myself and figuring out what I really wanted to do with my life. I changed my major and started to take summer classes every year. I moved out of those depressing ass dorms and into an apartment with my friends. I was much more happy and able to study more socially as well. My gpa went from a 1.9 eventually graduating with a 3.0 in 4 years. Dismissal does not mean you are kicked out of, first dismissal is just one semester and you don’t need to reapply to get back in. Do whatever you need to do to get your mindset in the right spot and work hard and you will do great in school and in life.
 	I didn’t got to UT.. your post was recommended on my feed. I just wanted to say, I failed out of college and felt similarly to you. I also got diagnosed with depression around that time, which helped me. It didn’t matter to my family though. No one believed in me and no one helped me go back to school. My family was ashamed of me.

Here’s what I did to get back to school. I found a job immediately to pay for my expenses.. retail or food, and then keep looking everyday for another job that’s full time and professional. There’s lots of jobs that’s don’t need a degree and this will give you more experience and let you see different careers. I spent a year doing work full time in a government office while I’ll figured out my next move. 

At my university you only have a limited time to return to school.. I think you needed to return before 3 semesters passed or then you’d need to reapply to the university. It was difficult but I worked a semester completely remote full time and worked my job full time to retake some classes I previously failed to boost my gpa. I went from a 1.3ish to a 2.0 after 1 semester of grinding. This was all in consultation with my advisor.. I had to jump through a lot of hoops and meet with a lot of people to put a plan in place to get me back in school. 

Then after the 1 semester of grinding, I was able to apply for a major I liked and switch into it - back to being a normal college student. So it took me a year and a half of working hard to get back into school normally, but totally worth it. And the 1.5 years let me really think about and experience different careers. 

I only wrote out my story because I just wanted to tell you.. it’s okay. Get yourself help. There are people who have failed and managed to overcome it. You can do it as well. You just need to take 1 step at a time
 	Absolutely. Have been here 15 years now and the pandemic has made me feel so disconnected. My now ex girlfriend became very depressed and down due to no work, which that seeped into our relationship. She broke up with me and went home for the time being. I have a community here but it’s still hard. Can’t really leave due to work though.
 	It sucks man. I wish I could go back in time and change what happened. It was someone I grew up with, went to high school and college with. His family hates me. The community shunned me and my family because drinking is strictly forbidden for us. I lost a lot of friends when it happened. I lost my job. It was the lowest point of my life. Didn’t leave the house. Didn’t talk to anyone. Lost myself in guilt and depression. Hated myself. Every time I went to court, I would die inside, not only from the guilt, but from the fear of being sent to prison for a long time. It was so mentally taxing. But eventually as days turned into months, months turned into years, I learned to live with it. After doing 120 days in county, I tried my best to let go of the past and vowed to never make the same mistake again. I got back on my feet and now, 7 years later I am doing much better now mentally and trying my best to focus on what’s important - my family and career. Because life is short man. You never know when it’s your time.
 	grade forgiveness? TL;DR VERSION- messed up 10 yrs ago, have crap gpa- transferring back now- 
Is there any sort of grade forgiveness? 
Can a credit replace the grade of another class? 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG STORY:
So 10 yrs ago I was a freshman at UT Austin. A lot of terrible stuff happened (mom imprisoned, lost all my friends, became suicidal and depressed.) I had no brain at all and failed out of school my second semester (I literally only went to one day of class, and then never withdrew. I was suicidal and wasn't thinking.) 

I have a GPA of 1.38. 

Since then I worked for a while, have a wonderful live, and have a good control of my depression! Yay! 

I went to a community college and had a 3.6 GPA there! 

I'm transferring back this semester and realized they do not take transfer gpa grades- they are just credits. Even if I made all As this semester, I'd still have a failing GPA! 

I also realized, instead of repeating classes (like the oceanography i never attended...) I took different courses for credits. So instead of replacing my Fs, I have Fs and credits all mixed together. 

I'm freaking out now, and their website has no info, and I just am feeling scared of not getting scholarships, and being on academic probation for my final years! :( HELP!

I'll, of course, go to an academic advisor about this, but any input is great (given how every time I've had an issue, I end up being sent to like 10 offices.) 

Is there any sort of grade forgiveness? (Ut in other towns has this.)
Can a credit replace the grade of another class? (example- took Physical Geography instead of retaking Oceanography. Can that credit replace the Oceanography? They are for the same credit.)

THANKS!
 	Stuyvesant puts you in a better position for college readiness. Stick through it and you'll be glad that you did. Once you're in college when you start from 0, you'll be glad you worked hard through high school. I went to a top 5 public HS and when I started college, I felt a huge gap between me and my classmates who came from a specialized high school. I had to work twice as hard to catch up. I eventually learned not to compare myself to others, but I was definitely depressed about it for a while.
 	Unhappy here and need help Currently a second semester transfer student here (math major) and I've gone into deep depression being here at UT. I also feel that my admission here is honestly a fluke. I also don't even like what I'm studying, and I feel like school is becoming more of a chore rather than enjoyment. I go to every single class, study regularly, and I still have been struggling to adjust to the classes here. Every time I walk past people happy here I shudder and feel unwelcomed knowing that I can't do that or have a valid interaction with people without making things awkward. I have no friends to fall back to and I feel like more of a burden to people when I ask for help. 

The thing that stresses me out the most is that I'm really trying to internally transfer into computational/aerospace engineering but I'm currently in my third year of college (used to be an engineering major at ACC, decided it wasn't for me, but now I want to pursue it again) so I've been regretting everything since coming here. My GPA is also probably too low (failed the first two exams in M 427L, so I can only get like a 3.43 in residence GPA at best assuming I can bounce back on the final). I've also been going crazy and secretly condemn myself and struggle to pick up hobbies. 

I want to transfer to a different university for engineering, but money is tight and I would be set far behind everyone else. I feel like I've ruined my whole college experience and shattered my dreams. One other option I could do is tailor the math degree, but it's just not the same as engineering. I'm already at 83 credit hours, and some of these credits wouldn't even transfer, unfortunately.
 	Has the future already been decided for me? Firstly, Thank you all for reading my story. I really am grateful for you.    
    I have been a stellar student ever since I can remember. Like all of us, I had great grades, curricular, positions, volunteer hours, clubs etc. The whole Hunger Games Collection and I worked very hard for it all. But around the end of High School, Depression started to hit me hard. And I doubted myself away from the major I wanted because I thought I didn't have what it took. And in that moment of weakness, I choose a major my father selected for me. ECE because it was stable and would give me a high salary for the rest of my life. Among other terrible scenarios separate from academia, I suffered deeply. I was going to very dark places and my depression became larger than it had ever before. I truly could not handle it all. In the end of 3 semesters, I fell to a 1.8 gpa. I am home now, I am taking care of myself. Life feels better, and so do I. But I am worried that any colleges that I will try to transfer to (since UT won't let me switch or do anything with a GPA as low as mine) will understand my story. Will they just see that I am a diseased 1.8 student who in a year and a half plunged into rock-bottom after 12 years of long nights of toil and sweat? I'm worried. atm, I'm a CC. I'm doing the basics, govs, Englishes. Classes all majors need. My GPA will rise to about a 2.48. I'm thinking of taking UTEX Calc courses to raise it higher since  CC isn't that hard. I want to put my life back together. I want to still aim high and have a great job. My father tells me, I've screwed all or most my chances. I'm worried that I won't make it if people see me as the 1.8 GPA without my 3.98 GPA. I know I'm not the only one in this situation and I wish I could understand why this happened at a deeper level, but right now, I just want to get out of here. I know I am intelligent and creative. I know I have skills that can be developed to be productive high-class jobs. What do you say? Do you know anyone like me who has survived? Let me know. and thank you all so much for taking the time out of your day to help me.
 	I was miserable in high school. I was bullied terribly, had no close friends, and did poorly in my classes despite the efforts of a lot of adults who were trying to help me. I was out "sick" over a month of both my freshman and sophomore years because my anxiety and depression were manifesting physically. I dropped out in my junior year.  


I went to a community college immediately after leaving high school and loved it. Now I'm in a highly competitive program at UT, got all As last semester, and am working as an undergraduate RA with a professor who is really great. College is a million times better for me. 

If you're smart and hate high school, do everything you can to graduate early and move on. Nothing in high school matters once you've started college.
 	UT CS student, just trashed my GPA. Am I fucked? I'm not gonna give you my sob story, basically I got depressed and ruined my GPA by failing a class. I have a 3.1 GPA at this point, is there any possibility of me getting a good internship and job still? Should I give up on FAANG? I have got in touch with a psychologist now and it is helping so I think I can still graduate and not fail out.